ACCC
Enterprise Agreement
2016-2019

Enterprise Agreement

0

Table of contents
Paragraph(s)

Page(s)

1–16

5–9

Purpose

1

5

Title

2

5

3–4

5

Operation of Agreement

5

5

Delegation

6

5

ACCC policy

7–10

5

Individual flexibility arrangement

11–15

6

16

7–9

17–56

10–14

Salary on engagement, promotion or transfer

17–20

10

Classification structure

21–23

10–11

Internal Lawyer

24–26

11

Graduate APS

27–30

11

Indigenous Australian Government Development Program

31–32

11

Training classifications

33–35

12

Non-ongoing employees

36–37

12

38

12

Salary increase

39–40

12

Advancement

41–43

12–13

44

13

Method of salary payment

45–46

13

Superannuation (employer contribution rate)

47–49

13

Flexible remuneration packaging (salary packaging)

50–51

13

Resignation, permanent transfer to another APS agency

52–54

13–14

Death of employee

55

14

Supported wage system

56

14

Part 1: Scope of Agreement

Coverage

Definitions
Part 2: Classification and remuneration

Junior rates

Reduction

Enterprise Agreement

1

Part 3: Performance

57–89

15–18

Probation

57–58

15

Performance management

59–64

15

Salary progression

65–71

15–16

Managing unsatisfactory performance

72–89

17–18

90–123

19–22

Access

90–92

19

Hours of work and attendance

93–100

19

Breaks from work

101–102

20

103

20

Flextime Scheme

104–110

20

Executive level employees: flexible hours and time off

111–114

21

Part-time work

115–123

20–22

124–202

23–30

Annual leave

124–138

23–24

Personal leave

139–153

24–26

Long service leave

154–156

26

Parental leave

157–168

26–27

Supporting partner’s leave

169–176

27–28

Defence Reservists leave

177–181

28

Other leave

186–185

28

Public holidays

186–192

28–29

Christmas shutdown

193–196

29–30

Portability of leave

197–200

30

Unauthorised absence

201–202

30

203–253

31–36

Overtime

203–214

31–32

Temporary performance at a higher work value

215–223

32

On-call duty

224–228

32–33

Part 4: Flexible working conditions

Unreasonable additional hours

Part 5: Leave

Part 6: Other working conditions and allowances

Enterprise Agreement

2

Healthy lifestyle reimbursement

229–230

33

Workplace responsibility allowance

231–234

33–34

Allowances

235–248

34–36

249

36

Employee assistance

250–251

36

Loss, damage and indemnity

252–253

36

254–287

37–40

Representation

254–255

37

Employee consultation

256–260

37

Consultation on major change

261–276

37–39

Dispute settlement procedures

277–284

39–40

Discrimination free workplace

285–287

40

288–289

41

Excess employees

288

41

Termination of employment

289

41

Attachment A: ACCC broadband—general

A.1

42

Attachment B: Internal lawyer broadband

B.1

43

Attachment C: Graduate broadband

C.1

44

Attachment D: IAGDP Broadband

D.1

45

Attachment E: ACCC junior rates of pay

E.1

46

Attachment F—Supported Wage System

F.1–F.19

47–49

Eligibility criteria

F.3–F.4

47

Supported wage rates

F.5–F.7

48

Assessment of capacity

F.8–F.9

48

F.10–F.11

48

Review of assessment

F.12

48–49

Other terms and conditions of employment

F.13

49

Workplace adjustment

F.14

49

F.15–F.19

49

Studies assistance scheme

Part 7: Cooperative working relationship

Part 8: Workplace adjustment

Lodgement of SWS wage assessment agreement

Trial Period

Enterprise Agreement

3

Attachment G: Excess employees

G.1–G.37

50–55

Meaning of excess employee

G.1

50

Definitions

G.2

50

Application

G.3–G.4

51

Expression of interest process

G.5–G.6

52

Excess employee process

G.7–G.15

52–53

Financial information

G.16–G.18

53

G.19

53

Severance pay

G.20–G.22

53–54

Redeployment

G.23–G.28

54

Termination during retention period

G.29–G.32

55

Termination at the end of retention period

G.33–G.37

55

Career transition assistance

Enterprise Agreement

4

Part 1: Scope of Agreement
Purpose
1.

The purpose of this Agreement is to set out, for its duration, the terms and conditions
of employment for those employees subject to this Agreement.

Title
2.

This Agreement will be known as the Australian Competition and Consumer
Commission Enterprise Agreement 2016-2019.

Coverage
3.

This Agreement is made under s.172 of the Fair Work Act 2009 (Fair Work Act)
between the Chairperson, on behalf of the Commonwealth of Australia, and nonSenior Executive Service (SES) employees engaged under the Public Service Act
1999 in the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC).

4.

An employee temporarily performing at the SES work level may continue to be
subject to this Agreement except where it is inconsistent with relevant legislation and
the binding instructions of the Delegate.

Operation of Agreement
5.

This Agreement commences 7 days after it is approved by the Fair Work Commission
(FWC) under s.186 of the Fair Work Act and nominally expires 3 years after its
commencement. This Agreement states the terms and conditions of employment of
the employees subject to this Agreement, other than terms and conditions applying
under a Commonwealth law.

Delegation
6.

The Chairperson may, in writing, delegate to or authorise a person to perform any of
the Chairperson’s powers or functions under this Agreement. No such delegation will
prevent the personal exercise by the Chairperson of a power or function so
delegated.

ACCC policy
7.

The operation of this Agreement is supported by ACCC policy. ACCC policy will apply
in the form it is in at the time of any relevant action or decision.

8.

Policies and procedures which support the operation of this Agreement, conditions of
employment or entitlements will be developed or varied in consultation with
employees and the Employee Council.

9.

ACCC policy referred to in this Agreement is not incorporated into, and does not form
part of, this Agreement.

10.

A provision of this Agreement prevails to the extent of any inconsistency with an
ACCC policy.

Enterprise Agreement—Part 1: Scope of Agreement

5

Individual flexibility arrangement
11.

The Delegate and an employee covered by this Agreement may agree to make an
individual flexibility arrangement (IFA) to vary the effect of terms of the Agreement
where:
(a) the agreement deals with one or more of the following matters:
i.

arrangements about when work is performed

ii.

overtime rates

iii.

allowances

iv.

remuneration

v.

leave

vi.

penalty rates.

(b) the arrangement meets the genuine needs of the Delegate and employee in
relation to one or more of the matters mentioned in subclause (a)
(c) the arrangement is genuinely agreed to by the Delegate and the employee.
12.

The Delegate must ensure that the terms of the IFA:
(a) are about permitted matters under section 172 of the Fair Work Act
(b) are not unlawful terms under section 194 of the Fair Work Act
(c) result in the employee being better off overall than the employee would be if no
arrangement was made.

13.

The Delegate must ensure that the IFA:
(a) is in writing
(b) includes the name of the Delegate and employee
(c) is signed by the employer and the employee and if the employee is under 18
years of age, signed by a parent or guardian of the employee
(d) includes details of:
i.

the terms of the Agreement that will be varied by the arrangement

ii.

how the arrangement will vary the effect of the terms

iii.

how the employee will be better off overall in relation to the terms and
conditions of his or her employment as a result of the arrangement and

iv.

states the day on which the arrangement commences and, where
applicable, when the arrangement ceases.

14.

The Delegate must give the employee a copy of the IFA within 14 days after it is
agreed to.

15.

The Delegate or the employee may terminate the IFA:
(a) by giving no more than 28 days written notice to the other party to the IFA or
(b) if the Delegate and employee agree in writing - at any time.

Enterprise Agreement—Part 1: Scope of Agreement

6

Definitions
16.

The following table defines particular terms for the purpose of this Agreement:
Term

Definition

ACCC

the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission

ACCC policy

a policy which provides procedural support to the terms
and conditions of employment set out in this Agreement

Agreement

the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission
Enterprise Agreement 2016-2019

anniversary date

the date of an employee’s commencement

Australian
Competition and
Consumer
Commission

for the purposes of this Agreement, includes the
Australian Energy Regulator established under s44AE of
the Competition and Consumer Act 2010 (Cth)

APS

the Australian Public Service

broadband

a group of two or more APS classifications

Chairperson

the person appointed as the chairperson of the ACCC
(including a person acting as chairperson), who is the
agency head as defined in the Public Service Act

Delegate

see clause 6

employee

an employee, whether ongoing or non-ongoing, engaged
by the ACCC under the Public Service Act includes an
employee who serves the Australian Energy Regulator
but does not include a Senior Executive Service (SES)
employee

family member

a person who:
•

is related by blood

•

is related by marriage

•

is in a bona fide domestic or household relationship
with the employee without discrimination as to
sexual orientation

•

is a child, adopted child, or foster child of:

•

o

the employee

o

the employee’s spouse, de facto spouse or
partner

o

the employee’s former spouse, de facto
spouse or partner

the Delegate is satisfied has a strong affinity with the
employee of the nature of a family relationship

Enterprise Agreement—Part 1: Scope of Agreement

7

FWC

Fair Work Commission

Fair Work Act

Fair Work Act 2009 (Cth), as amended

flexible hours of
attendance

Monday to Friday, 0700-1900

individual assessment

where an employee is invited by their manager to apply
for advancement across a transition point or temporarily
perform at a higher work value. A recommendation is
made to the Delegate based on an assessment made of
the relative suitability of the employee, or employees, to
perform the relevant duties.

industrial association

as defined in s.12 of the Fair Work Act

Internal Lawyer

is an employee who is assigned an internal lawyer
position in the Legal and Economic Division of the
ACCC, howsoever named

internal selection

where a position is advertised within the ACCC, inviting
applications from any ongoing ACCC employee within
the broadband to apply for advancement across a
transition point or for temporary performance at a higher
work value. A recommendation is made to the Delegate
based on an assessment made of the relative suitability
of the employee, or employees, to perform the relevant
duties.

manager

the immediate manager/supervisor of the employee

merit

has the same meaning as defined in s. 10A(2) of the
Public Service Act

open merit selection

where a position is gazetted and advertised, inviting
applications from all interested parties. A selection
advisory committee assesses the applicants and makes
a recommendation to the Delegate.

pay

has the same meaning as salary

Public Service Act

Public Service Act 1999 (Cth), as amended

salary

the employee's rate of salary as shown in attachments
A–E, including any adjustment for temporary
performance at a higher level, and/or individual flexibility
arrangements; where salary sacrifice, purchased leave
or other relevant arrangements are in place, the
employee's salary for purposes of superannuation,
severance and termination payments will be determined
as if the salary sacrifice or other arrangements had not
been entered into

senior manager

the Chairperson, Senior Executive Service Band 1-3, or
regional director

Enterprise Agreement—Part 1: Scope of Agreement

8

settlement period

fortnightly period commencing on the date an employee
is paid and finishing on the day before the next date an
employee is paid

standard hours of
attendance

Monday to Friday, 0830-1230 and 1330-1655, public
holidays excepted

standard working
hours

Monday to Friday, 7:25 hours per day, 37:05 hours per
week, 74:10 hours per fortnight

training classifications

the classifications listed in Schedule 2 of the Public
Service Classification Rules 2000

transition point

see Attachments A and B and clause 42; advancement
points within a broadband that cannot be crossed by
means of salary progression

Enterprise Agreement—Part 1: Scope of Agreement

9

Part 2: Classification and remuneration
Salary on engagement, promotion or transfer
17.

Where an employee is engaged, promoted, transferred, or reassigned either within
the ACCC or from outside the ACCC, their salary will the base of the salary range of
the applicable classification.

18.

The Delegate may approve a higher salary within the relevant classification where
one or more of the following applies:

19.

•

salary progression in the classification has already occurred due to previous
temporary performance at this level

•

the experience, qualifications and skills of the employee warrant payment of
salary above the base rate

•

the employee’s prior salary equalled or exceeded the base salary of the new
classification.

If, on commencement with the ACCC, an employee from another APS agency
(previous agency) is:
(a) assigned duties at the same classification level as at their previous agency, and
(b) their salary level at their previous agency for the equivalent duties on their last day
of service was above the salary cap for the ACCC classification,
the employee will be paid at the salary level of their previous agency while engaged
by the ACCC until the salary for the ACCC classification equals or exceeds their
current salary. Any performance rewards from the employee’s previous agency will
not be awarded by the ACCC. Work performed by the employee at the classification
level in the previous agency will not be considered for the purposes of salary
progression.

20.

Where at the time of engagement, promotion, or transfer, an employee's salary is
incorrectly set at a salary level other than that which it has been agreed the employee
will be paid, the Delegate may determine in writing the payment of the employee's
salary at the correct salary level and any necessary adjustment.

Classification structure
21.

The Delegate will determine the appropriate mechanism to assign an employee to a
position in accordance with the relevant legislation.

22.

The APS classifications applicable to this Agreement are:
•

ACCC broadband 1 – APS 1, APS 2, APS 3

•

ACCC broadband 2 – APS 4, APS 5

•

APS 6

•

Executive Level 1

•

Executive Level 2

•

Internal Lawyer Broadband 1 – APS 3, APS 4, APS 5, APS 6, EL1

•

Internal Lawyer Broadband 2 – EL2

•

Training classifications

Enterprise Agreement—Part 2: Classification and remuneration

10

23.

•

Graduate (GAPS) Broadband

•

Indigenous Australian Government Development Program (IAGDP)
Broadband.

The salary ranges for all employees except employees with a training classification
(including Graduate APS), IAGDP participants or employees subject to a junior rate of
pay are set out in Attachment A and Attachment B to this Agreement.

Internal Lawyer
24.

The classification structure for Internal Lawyers is set out in Attachment B. Within this
classification structure, assignment of duties, movement, and the transition points
operate as described in clauses 41-43.

25.

An Internal Lawyer may not be advanced, promoted or be eligible for salary
progression or augmented salary through an IFA in the Internal Lawyer Broadband
without being an admitted practitioner, however described, of the High Court or the
Supreme Court of a state or territory.

26.

Where an employee is no longer an Internal Lawyer because they have moved to
another position in the ACCC, their salary will not change until the salary for the
classification of their new position exceeds their current salary. When this occurs, the
employee will be entitled to salary progression and any salary increase (clause 39).

Graduate APS
27.

An offer of engagement for a Graduate APS employee is conditional on satisfactory
completion of the probationary period which will extend for the life of the graduate
development program. Further information about the length and requirements of the
graduate development program are contained in ACCC policy. The Delegate has the
discretion to extend the period of probation by up to three months where the Delegate
considers it appropriate and has provided the employee at least one month’s written
notice of the extension.

28.

The salary range for Graduate APS employees is set out in Attachment C.

29.

A Graduate APS employee will be engaged at the GAPS A salary. A Graduate APS
employee will be progressed to the GAPS B salary following successful completion of
the first rotation of the graduate development program.

30.

When the Delegate is satisfied that the course of training has been successfully
completed, a Graduate APS employee will be allocated a classification of APS 3 in
accordance with the Classification Rules. The Delegate will then assign duties within
the APS4 classification and set salary at the base of the APS4 salary range.

Indigenous Australian Government Development Program
31.

Employees engaged as Indigenous Australian Government Development Program
(IAGDP) participants will commence at the base of a salary of an IAGDP 1 level as
set out in Attachment D.

32.

On satisfactory completion of the IAGDP requirements, employees will be eligible for
advancement within the IAGDP Broadband in Attachment D.

Enterprise Agreement—Part 2: Classification and remuneration

11

Training classifications
33.

Unless the delegate determines otherwise, employees with training classifications are
non-ongoing employees who may be engaged for no longer than 18 months.

34.

The classification levels of employees with training classifications will be in
accordance with the Australian Public Service Classification Rules 2000, or
equivalent.

35.

The salaries of employees with training classifications are those provided for by the
Australian Public Service Enterprise Award 2015, or equivalent.

Non-ongoing employees
36.

Except where otherwise stated in this Agreement or provided by legislation, the terms
and conditions of a non-ongoing employee are the same as those for an ongoing
employee under this Agreement.

37.

An employee who is engaged or commences on an irregular or intermittent basis is a
casual non-ongoing employee and will be paid an additional 20 per cent of the hourly
rate of pay payable to an ongoing employee in lieu of paid leave entitlements
excluding long service leave.

Junior rates
38.

An employee under 18 years of age who is engaged with the classification of APS 1
is a junior employee. The salaries of junior employees are set out in Attachment E.

Salary increase
39.

The following percentage increases will apply to employees’ salaries from the first
day of the first full pay period commencing on or after:
Date

7 days after approval of this
Agreement from the FWC

Percentage
increase

40.

3%

12 months after
commencement

24 months after
commencement

2%

1%

The salary increases stated above do not apply to an employee whose salary is set
through an individual flexibility arrangement.

Advancement
41.

An employee can advance within a broadband up to a transition point through salary
progression (see clauses 65-71).

42.

An employee can only advance across a transition point in a broadband if:
(a) there is sufficient work available at the higher classification
(b) the employee’s performance is satisfactory and
(c) the employee demonstrates they have gained the necessary skill and
proficiencies to perform the more complex work through:
a. individual assessment
b. internal selection or

Enterprise Agreement—Part 2: Classification and remuneration

12

c. open merit selection.
43.

An employee can only be promoted to the next broadband through an open merit
selection process.

Reduction
44.

In circumstances where an employee’s classification is reduced by the Delegate, their
new salary level will be determined by the Delegate.

Method of salary payment
45.

Employees will have their fortnightly net salary paid by electronic funds transfer into a
financial institution account of their choice. Additional fixed deductions may be made
to financial institutions subject to the restrictions of the payroll system.

46.

The fortnightly salary will be calculated according to the following formula:
fortnightly salary = (annual salary x 12) ÷ 313

Superannuation (employer contribution rate)
47.

Where employer contributions are to an accumulation superannuation fund, the
employer contribution will be 15.4% calculated on the basis of the employee’s
fortnightly contribution salary where the employee is a member of the PSS
Accumulation Plan (PSSap) or, in the case of any other accumulation fund, on the
basis of the employee’s ordinary time earnings. The contribution will not be reduced
by any other contributions made through salary sacrifice arrangements. This clause
does not apply where a superannuation fund cannot accept employer superannuation
contributions (for example, a fund unable to accept contributions for employees aged
over 75 years).

48.

Employer superannuation contributions will not be paid on behalf of employees during
periods of unpaid leave that do not count as service, unless otherwise required under
legislation or this Agreement.

49.

The Delegate may choose to limit superannuation choice to superannuation funds
that are SuperStream compliant in accordance with the Superannuation Data and
Payment Standards 2012.

Flexible remuneration packaging (salary packaging)
50.

All employees will have access to flexible remuneration packaging. An employee who
participates in flexible remuneration packaging will have their salary for all other
purposes calculated as if the flexible remuneration packaging arrangement had not
been entered into. Further information about flexible remuneration can be found in
ACCC policy.

51.

The ACCC will meet reasonable internal administrative costs. Any costs and taxes
directly associated with the employee’s salary packaging must be met by the
employee.

Resignation, permanent transfer to another APS agency
52.

An employee must give 14 days’ written notice of their decision to resign from the
ACCC, and 1 month’s notice for a voluntary transfer to another APS agency on
permanent transfer or promotion. The Delegate may reduce either notice period in
exceptional circumstances.

Enterprise Agreement—Part 2: Classification and remuneration

13

53.

A resigning or transferring employee must complete the separation requirements prior
to their last working day. The separation requirements are available in ACCC policy.

54.

Where the employee’s date of resignation would fall on a non-business day, the
effective date of the resignation will be the last business day prior to that nonbusiness day.

Death of employee
55.

Where an employee dies, or the Delegate directs that an employee will be presumed
to have died on a particular date, the Delegate may authorise the payment of the
amount of salary, annual leave, long service leave and allowances to which the
employee would have been entitled had they otherwise ceased employment on
resignation or retirement.

Supported wage system
56.

The ACCC will contribute to the supported wage system as outlined in Attachment F.

Enterprise Agreement—Part 2: Classification and remuneration

14

Part 3: Performance
Probation
57.

An offer of engagement for an employee other than a Graduate APS employee (see
clause 27) is conditional on satisfactory completion of a probationary period of 6
months unless the Delegate determines otherwise. The Delegate has the discretion
to extend the period of probation by up to an additional period of six months (12
months in total) where the Delegate considers it appropriate and has provided the
employee at least one month’s written notice of the extension.

58.

During the probationary period, an employee is not subject to either of the following
sections of this Agreement:
•

managing unsatisfactory performance (clauses 72-89)

•

excess employees (Attachment G).

Performance management
59.

Performance management consists of performance feedback, performance
development and performance appraisal.

60.

Each financial year the manager and employee will agree on an action plan which
includes key deliverables, expected workplace behaviours, performance measures
and support required.

61.

Throughout the year, the manager and employee will have formal and informal
discussions about performance generally and in relation to clause 62 that occurs as
early as practical after the performance. These discussions collectively form the
performance review.

62.

Performance appraisal includes assessment of achievements through the
performance review, salary progression and the management of unsatisfactory
performance.

63.

More detailed information about individual performance management can be found in
ACCC policy.

64.

For ongoing employees, managing unsatisfactory performance will occur consistent
with clauses 72-89.

Salary progression
65.

Each eligible employee will be considered for salary progression in September
following completion of their performance review for the previous financial year, with
any percentage increase to be paid on the first pay date in October.

66.

An eligible employee may request additional salary progression reviews by their
manager for one additional salary progression in the 12-month review period from
four months after the September salary progression review. The manager will
conduct the review within 21 business days of a request, with any pay increase to be
processed with the first full pay run after the approval is received by Payroll.

67.

An eligible employee is an employee other than:
(a) an employee with a training classification

Enterprise Agreement—Part 3: Performance

15

(b) an employee on probation
(c) an employee who is an IAGDP participant or
(d) an employee at a junior rate of pay
who:
(e) has a salary less than the salary cap for their classification (see Attachments A
and B)
(f) has performed duties at their substantive classification level or a higher work
value for a cumulative period of 4 months within the preceding 12 months and
(g) has had recent performance review discussions that indicate they are performing
at or above a satisfactory level of performance.
68.

A manager will assess an eligible employee’s progress through their performance
review discussions (if available) or since commencement at that classification level
according to the criteria set out in column 1 of the table below. The senior manager
will then determine the percentage increase to be applied to an eligible employee’s
salary according to the corresponding range specified in column 2 of the table below.
The manager and the senior manager may take into account the time the employee
has spent at the classification level in determining the percentage increase.
Progress since last review

% increase

The employee has made exceptional progress towards being fully
competent, skilled, productive and professional for their classification
level

Any
percentage
(up to cap)

The employee has made significant progress towards being fully
competent, skilled, productive and professional for their classification
level

2% - ≤ 4%
(over a 12
month period)

The employee has made some progress towards being fully competent,
skilled, productive and professional for their classification level

≤ 2%

The employee has not progressed towards being fully competent,
skilled, productive and professional for their classification level

No change

(over a 12
month period)

69.

If an eligible employee is temporarily working at a higher value at the time of
assessment described in clause 68, the manager will assess the employee’s
progress at the higher level and at their substantive position since their last review (if
available) or since commencement at that classification level according to the criteria
set out in column 1 of the table. The senior manager will then determine the
percentage increase to be applied to the eligible employee’s salary at the higher level
and to their salary for their substantive position according to the corresponding range
specified in column 2 of the table above. The percentages applied by the senior
manager may be different.

70.

Salary progression cannot result in an employee’s salary exceeding the cap for their
classification.

71.

Delegate approval is required for any percentage increase exceeding 4% in the 12
month salary progression review period.

Enterprise Agreement—Part 3: Performance

16

Managing unsatisfactory performance
Informal performance management process
72.

The management of unsatisfactory performance will commence with an informal
performance management process. The employee will be given an opportunity to:
(a) discuss the aspects of their performance considered as not meeting the
acceptable standards of performance for their role
(b) provide a response
(c) discuss with their manager the required acceptable standards of performance,
and
(d) agree on an action plan.

73.

The period of informal performance management will be no less than 4 weeks.

Formal performance management process
74.

If unsatisfactory performance continues, with agreement of the Delegate the manager
may commence the formal management process by issuing a written warning notice.
Further information about the contents of the written warning notice is contained in
ACCC policy.

75.

Following issue of the notice and before the formal assessment process begins, the
manager and employee must develop a formal performance management plan to
address the performance issues detailed in the written notice. If the manager and the
employee are unable to agree on a formal performance management plan within 2
weeks of the notice, the plan will be determined by the Delegate.

76.

The formal performance management process consists of an assessment period, the
duration of which will be at least 4 weeks as defined in the warning notice. During this
period, the manager or an independent assessor will assess the employee’s
performance at least on a fortnightly basis and prepare a written progress report on
the employee’s performance.

77.

The employee must be given the opportunity to provide comments on each report.

78.

If the employee has met the required standard of performance by the end of the
formal performance management process, no further action will be taken.

79.

If the employee’s performance fails to meet the required standard by the end of the
formal performance management program, the employee will be asked to show
cause within 7 days as to why further action should not be taken against them.

80.

Further action includes one or more of the following:
(a) assignment of more suitable duties
(b) removal of special salary level (where applicable)
(c) reduction in classification
(d) termination of employment on the grounds of unsatisfactory performance of
duties.

Enterprise Agreement—Part 3: Performance

17

Reduction in classification
81.

A notice of reduction takes effect after one month unless the employee lodges an
appeal.

82.

If an employee is reduced in classification without consent, the employee may lodge
an appeal to the Delegate within 14 days of the notice of reduction on one or both of
the following grounds:
(a) they met the required standard of performance
(b) there was a serious defect in the application of the above procedure.

83.

The Delegate will consider the matter and decide to confirm or revoke the notice of
reduction in classification within four weeks from the date the appeal was lodged. If
the appeal is successful, the notice of reduction in classification is revoked without
detriment to the employee.

84.

Where an employee lodges an appeal and the Delegate’s decision is upheld, the
reduction takes effect one month after the notice was issued. During the course of an
appeal, the employee will remain in their current job. If the employee fails to appear at
a scheduled hearing of the appeal, the Delegate may dismiss the appeal.

Termination
85.

If, after being given opportunity to show cause under clause 79, an employee is
terminated on the grounds of unsatisfactory performance, the notice of termination
will take effect:
(a) 14 days after the day on which the notice is given, or after the expiration of the
minimum period of notice required under the Fair Work Act, whichever is the later,
or
(b) after payment in lieu of notice of the amount required under the Fair Work Act.

86.

Further information about the management of unsatisfactory performance can be
found in ACCC policy.

Temporary transfer
87.

If an employee commences a temporary work placement with another agency after
the issue of a written warning but before the specified period has concluded, upon
their return the process will continue from the point it was at when the employee left.

Leave
88.

Requests for annual leave, purchased leave or long service leave may be approved,
but will not extend the assessment period unless this is agreed with the Delegate or
unless the leave had been approved before the written warning.

89.

The Delegate may extend the assessment period for time taken on personal leave if
satisfactory evidence is provided and the leave period was a continuous absence of
five days or more. The total aggregated period of extension cannot exceed two weeks
unless the Delegate determines otherwise. A medical certificate or other evidence will
be required for absences due to personal leave of more than three days.

Enterprise Agreement—Part 3: Performance

18

Part 4: Flexible working conditions
Access
90.

An employee is entitled to apply for a flexible working arrangement which includes,
but is not limited to:
•

flexible hours of attendance

•

flextime scheme (for APS 1 to APS 6 employees)

•

Time Off In Lieu (for EL1 and EL2 employees)

•

part-time work

•

job-share arrangements

•

home-based work.

91.

An application for a flexible working arrangement (other than the flextime scheme,
time off in lieu or part-time work which are detailed below) will be determined by the
employee’s manager subject to operational requirements and will not be
unreasonably refused by the Delegate. Further information about flexible working
arrangements can be found in ACCC policy.

92.

The flexible working conditions described in this Part of the Agreement are in addition
to, and not conditional on, access to flexible working arrangements in the Fair Work
Act.

Hours of work and attendance
93.

The business hours of the ACCC’s Canberra, Melbourne and Sydney offices are
0830 to 1730 each business day and the ACCC’s Adelaide, Brisbane, Darwin,
Hobart, Perth, and Townsville offices are 0900 to 1700 each business day.

94.

Standard working hours are Monday to Friday, 7:25 hours per day, 37:05 hours per
week, 74:10 hours per fortnight (known as the settlement period).

95.

Standard hours of attendance are Monday to Friday 0830–1230 and 1330–1655,
public holidays excepted.

96.

Flexible hours of attendance are Monday to Friday 0700–1900. An employee may
choose start, finish, and break times within this span, subject to their manager’s prior
agreement.

97.

A request from an employee who has responsibility for the care of a child of school
age or under to access flexible working arrangements will only be refused on
reasonable business grounds.

98.

For a part-time employee, standard hours of work and attendance are those agreed
with the Delegate.

99.

An employee will not be required to work more than 10 hours in a 24-hour period.

100.

An employee is responsible for accurately recording working hours. An employee’s
working hours will be actively monitored (including their use of flex, time off in lieu and
annual leave) as part of the employee’s performance review. Any action taken in
respect of an employee’s working hours will be in consultation with the employee and
in the interests of the employee’s work/life balance and of the ACCC.

Enterprise Agreement—Part 4: Flexible working conditions

19

Breaks from work
101.

An employee should not work more than five hours without a break of at least
30 minutes. Apart from breaks from telephone duty (clause 102), breaks taken from
work within the work day are not paid breaks.

102.

An Infocentre employee on telephone duty must take a paid five minute break from
the telephone within any hour where they are not already rostered a break, or where
they have experienced an aggressive or upsetting call. These five minute breaks do
not accumulate. After two hours and before five hours of telephone duty, an
Infocentre employee or switchboard operator must take a paid 15 minute break from
the telephone.

Unreasonable additional hours
103.

Employees will not be required to work unreasonable additional hours and are
entitled to refuse this work in accordance with the Fair Work Act. Further information
can be found in ACCC policy.

Flextime Scheme
104.

An employee with a classification of APS 1 to APS 6 or a training classification,
including part-time employees, may access the Flextime Scheme. The Delegate may
direct that an employee not participate in the Flextime Scheme. In this case the
employee will work standard or agreed part-time hours unless the Delegate agrees
otherwise.

105.

Flex credits will accrue on an hour for hour basis for time worked during the flexible
hours of attendance in excess of 7:25 hours per day. Flex credits will also accrue on
an hour for hour basis for time spent travelling on official business in Australia
regardless of the time of that travel.

106.

Attendance beyond standard working hours that is not required in the view of the
employee’s manager will not accrue flex credits. Attendance beyond the flexible
hours of attendance will only accrue flex credits with the approval of the employee’s
manager.

107.

An employee may carry over a maximum of 37:05 hours of flex credit to the next
settlement period.

108.

An employee may carry over more than 37:05 hours flex credit to the next settlement
period with the agreement of their manager. When this occurs, the employee must
reduce their flex credit to less than 37:05 hours by the end of the next settlement
period. If the reduction is not possible because of operational requirements, the
employee may elect to be paid overtime at a rate of one and one half for the hours
worked in excess of 37:05 hours. An employee may take up to a maximum of 5 days
of flex leave over 2 consecutive settlement periods, subject to their manager’s
approval.

109.

An employee may carry over a maximum of 10 hours of flex debit to the next
settlement period. Any flex debit in excess of 10 hours at the end of the settlement
period will be treated as leave without pay and the employee’s salary will be adjusted
accordingly.

110.

Further information about the Flextime Scheme can be found in ACCC policy.

Enterprise Agreement—Part 4: Flexible working conditions

20

Executive level employees: flexible hours and time off
111.

Subject to operational requirements, an employee with a classification of EL1 or EL2
(executive level employees) may choose their start, finish and break times within the
flexible hours of attendance. An executive level employee may make a request to
their manager for variations to their attendance times and for short-term absences,
including full day absences, without the need for a leave application.

112.

Subject to operational requirements, executive level employees should have a break
of at least 8 hours plus reasonable travelling time, between ceasing work on one day
and commencing work the next day.

113.

An executive level employee will have reasonable access to time off. Time off is not
intended to compensate for additional hours worked on a one for one basis.

114.

Further information about time off for executive level employees can be found in
ACCC policy.

Part-time work
115.

An employee who enters into an agreement with the Delegate to work fewer hours
than the standard working hours (known as a part-time working arrangement) is a
part-time employee.

116.

The remuneration and other benefits of a part-time employee will be calculated on a
pro rata basis except for the entitlements in the Allowances section of Part 6 of this
Agreement, where a part-time employee will receive the same amount as a full-time
employee.

117.

An employee may:
(a) request a part-time working arrangement
(b) request reversion to full-time hours within the period of their part-time agreement
(for part-time employees) or
(c) request variation of part-time hours (for part-time employees)
approval will be subject to operational requirements and take into account an
employee’s personal circumstances. The Delegate will not unreasonably oppose
requests for part-time work or changes to an existing part-time working arrangement.

118.

A full-time employee who becomes a part-time employee has a right to revert to full
time hours at the end of their part-time agreement.

119.

No employee will be required to vary part-time hours agreed in the part-time work
arrangement.

120.

Part-time APS 1-6 employees may participate in the flextime scheme by arrangement
with their Manager. Flextime cannot be used to vary a part-time employee’s hours
without the employee’s consent.

121.

Further information about part-time working arrangements can be found in ACCC
policy.

Parental leave
122.

An employee will have access to a flexible working arrangement consistent with
clause 90 of this Agreement at any time in the 6 week period prior to the birth of the
employee’s child, provided the employee has a medical certificate indicating fitness

Enterprise Agreement—Part 4: Flexible working conditions

21

for duty. If an employee chooses to work part-time hours (as opposed to using one of
the other flexibility options that are available to the employee) in the period
immediately prior to commencing parental leave, it will impact the rate of parental
leave paid to the employee.
123.

An employee returning from parental leave or supporting partner’s leave:
(a) will have access to part-time work
(b) may request a reversion to full time hours within the period of their part-time
agreement
(c) may request variation of part-time hours.
See clauses 117-119 for further information.

Enterprise Agreement—Part 4: Flexible working conditions

22

Part 5: Leave
Annual leave
Accrual
124.

Annual leave will accrue progressively at a rate of 148:20 hours per year of service
for a full time employee and on a pro rata basis for a part-time employee.

125.

An employee who has received compensation for a total of 45 weeks will accrue
annual leave credits on a pro rata basis for hours actually worked.

Approval
126.

Annual leave can be taken as it accrues, subject to the approval of an employee’s
manager. Such approval will not be unreasonably withheld.

127.

Annual leave must be accrued before it can be taken; it cannot be taken in
anticipation of future accrual.

Cash out of annual leave
128.

An employee may enter into a written agreement with their manager to cash out
annual leave credits where:
(a) the employee has taken at least 3 weeks of leave for recreational purposes over
the 24 months immediately preceding the cash out date, which can include a
combination of annual leave, purchased leave or long service leave
(b) the employee’s annual leave balance will be no less than 20 days following the
cash out and
(c) the employee has not cashed out annual leave in the 12 months prior to the cash
out date.

129.

The amount payable on cash out will be the full amount that the employee would
have been paid had they taken the annual leave.

130.

An employee must enter into a new agreement and meet the same conditions
outlined in clause 128 each time they wish to cash out annual leave.

Annual leave at half pay
131.

Subject to the agreement of the employee’s manager, an employee may elect to take
annual leave at half pay provided the leave request is for 5 days (equivalent of 2.5
annual leave credits, pro-rated for part-time employees) or longer. If approved,
annual leave credits will only be deducted for half of the leave duration.

132.

Annual leave taken at half pay counts as service.

Excess annual leave
133.

The maximum annual leave balance is 55 days. An employee with 50 days of annual
leave or more must reach an agreement with a senior manager to manage the
reduction of their annual leave balance over a reasonable period of time but not
greater than 6 months to ensure it does not exceed 55 days. This agreement must be

Enterprise Agreement—Part 5: Leave

23

completed not later than 1 month after the date on which the employee accrued their
55th day of annual leave (leave agreement).
134.

In developing a leave agreement under clause 133, the senior manager will consider
the employee’s circumstances including whether:
•

the employee has had sufficient periods of absence from work to ensure
refreshment and well-being

•

combining annual leave with parental leave or

•

using annual leave for study purposes.

135.

If an employee fails to reach an agreement or comply with an agreement as required
by clause 133 or 134, the employee may be directed to take leave until their annual
leave balance is less than 55 days.

136.

Further information can be found in ACCC policy.

Purchased leave
137.

An ongoing employee may apply to their manager for up to 4 weeks of purchased
leave. A manager may permit an employee to purchase more than 4 weeks of leave
in exceptional circumstances. Further information on purchased leave can be found in
ACCC policy.

138.

Purchased leave must be taken within 26 pays of the date on which it was purchased.

Personal leave
Definition of personal leave
139.

An employee may take personal leave for the following purposes:
•

the employee is not fit for work because of a personal illness or personal injury
affecting the employee (sick leave)

•

the employee must attend medical examinations, tests or treatment (sick leave)

•

to provide care or support to a family member, or a member of the employee’s
household, who requires support because of:
•

a personal illness or personal injury affecting the member or

•

an unexpected emergency affecting the member (carer’s leave)

•

a family member contracts or develops a personal injury or illness that poses a
serious threat to their life, or dies (compassionate leave)

•

in accordance with clauses 169 or 170 (supporting partner’s leave).

Note: The operation of this clause will not reduce entitlements to compassionate
leave or personal leave under the National Employment Standards. Further
information about the interaction of compassionate and personal leave in compliance
with the National Employment Standards can be found in ACCC policy.

Enterprise Agreement—Part 5: Leave

24

Accrual
140.

Personal leave will accrue progressively at a rate of 148:20 hours per year of service
for a full-time employee and on a pro rata basis for a part-time employee.

141.

On engagement, an ongoing full-time employee will be credited with 148:20 hours
personal leave. From their first anniversary date, an employee will accrue personal
leave progressively at an accrual rate of 148:20 hours for each year of service.
Ongoing part-time employees will be credited with personal leave on a pro rata basis
for the proportion of standard working hours they work.

142.

On engagement, non-ongoing employees will accrue personal leave progressively at
an accrual rate of 148:20 hours for each year of service. Non-ongoing part-time
employees will be credited with personal leave on a pro rata basis for the proportion
of standard working hours they work.

143.

An employee who has received compensation for a total of 45 weeks will accrue
personal leave credits on a pro rata basis for hours actually worked.

144.

Personal leave credits and debits will be maintained in hours and minutes. Unused
personal leave credits will accumulate.

145.

Accrued personal leave credits will not be paid out on separation from the ACCC.

Approval
146.

Where possible, applications for personal leave should be made to the Delegate in
advance of the leave. An employee may be required to support an application for
personal leave with satisfactory evidence.

147.

Personal leave must be approved by the Delegate.

148.

Single absences of less than one day can also be taken as personal leave or flex
leave.

149.

Further information about the processes for applying for, and the approval of,
personal leave can be found in ACCC policy.

No personal leave credits
150.

Where an employee has no personal leave credits, the Delegate may approve
additional leave as unpaid personal leave or half pay personal leave. The Delegate
will determine whether unpaid personal leave counts as service except where
otherwise provided for by legislation. Where an employee takes leave without pay not
to count as service, the accrual of personal leave credits will be adjusted, unless
otherwise required by legislation.

151.

Where an employee has no personal leave credits the employee may access unpaid
personal/carer’s leave in accordance with the National Employment Standards in the
Fair Work Act.

Personal leave while on other forms of leave
152.

An employee on annual leave or long service leave who:
(a) satisfies the definition of sick/carer’s leave in clause 139 produces satisfactory
medical evidence
(b) satisfies the definition of compassionate leave in clause 139 or

Enterprise Agreement—Part 5: Leave

25

(c) is on another form of leave provided for by the National Employment Standards in
the Fair Work Act (including an absence for a community service activity under
section 108) but is not on unpaid parental leave
may apply for personal leave to be approved for that period instead of the annual or
long service leave previously approved. Annual leave or long service leave will be recredited for the period of personal leave granted.
153.

An employee is not entitled to paid personal leave while taking parental leave or
supporting partner’s leave, unless otherwise permitted by legislation.

Long service leave
154.

An employee is eligible for long service leave in accordance with the Long Service
Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1976.

155.

The minimum period of long service leave which will be granted is 7 calendar days at
full pay or 14 days at half-pay, per occasion.

156.

Long Service Leave cannot be broken by other forms of leave unless required by
legislation.

Parental leave
157.

Employees (other than casual employees) who are pregnant, or who have given birth
are covered by the provisions of the Maternity Leave (Commonwealth Employees)
Act 1973 (the Maternity Leave Act).

158.

Employees with an entitlement to paid leave under the Maternity Leave Act are
provided with an additional 4 weeks of paid parental leave, to be taken continuous
with the entitlement to paid maternity leave provided by the Maternity Leave Act.

159.

Employees who adopt or are the primary caregiver for a permanently fostered child
are entitled to up to 52 weeks of parental leave. For primary caregivers, up to 16
weeks of that leave will be paid leave, commencing from the time of placement of the
child, provided the employee satisfies the same qualifying requirements as those
required to receive paid leave in accordance with the Maternity Leave Act.

160.

Employees are entitled to parental leave for adoption or permanent foster care when
that child:
(a) is under 16 years of age
(b) has not, or will not have, lived continuously with the employee for a period of 6
months or more as at the day (or expected day) of placement and
(c) is not (otherwise than because of the adoption) a child of the employee or the
employee’s spouse/partner.

161.

Documentary evidence of approval for adoption or enduring parental responsibilities
under formal fostering arrangements must be submitted when applying for parental
leave for adoption or permanent foster carer purposes.

162.

An employee who has insufficient annual leave credits may take 2 days unpaid preadoption leave or pre-foster carer’s leave to attend interviews or examinations
required to obtain approval to adopt or foster a child.

163.

Employees who are eligible for paid parental leave may elect to have the payment for
that leave spread over a maximum of 32 weeks at a rate no less than half their

Enterprise Agreement—Part 5: Leave

26

normal salary. Where payment is spread over a longer period, a maximum of 16
weeks of the leave period will count as service.
164.

On ending the initial 52 weeks of maternity or parental leave, employees may request
an extension of unpaid parental leave for a further period of up to 52 weeks. The
second period of unpaid leave is to commence immediately following the initial 52
week leave period.

165.

Unpaid parental leave will not count as service, except for any unpaid leave taken
during the first 16 weeks of maternity or parental leave.

166.

An employee who is a member of an accumulation superannuation fund will be paid
the employer superannuation contribution they were entitled to on their last day of
work before commencing maternity or parental leave until the final day of the second
period of unpaid parental leave provided for in clause 164.

167.

This leave is inclusive of public holidays and will not be extended because a public
holiday falls during a period of paid or unpaid parental leave.

168.

On ending parental leave, employees:
(a) will have access to part-time work
(b) may request a reversion to full time hours within the period of their part-time
agreement
(c) may request variation of part-time hours.
See clauses 117-119 for further information.

Supporting partner’s leave
169.

An employee with 12 months continuous service in the APS who is not the primary
care giver to a dependent child may take up to 15 days paid supporting partner’s
leave. If an employee wishes to extend their supporting partner’s leave, they may
take up to 5 days of personal leave.

170.

An employee without 12 months continuous service in the APS who is not the primary
care giver to a dependent child may take up to 5 days of personal leave.

171.

Supporting partner’s leave is to be taken within 6 weeks of:
•

the date of the birth

•

the adoption of the dependent child or

•

the placement of the dependent child on a permanent fostering arrangement.

172.

Documentary evidence of approval for adoption or enduring parental responsibilities
under formal fostering arrangements must be submitted when applying for supporting
partner’s leave.

173.

Supporting partner’s leave can only be taken on full pay.

174.

Supporting partner’s leave will not be extended because a public holiday falls during
the period of supporting partner’s leave. This does not apply if the employee is on
personal leave.

175.

Supporting partner’s leave (including the 5 days of personal leave) will count for
service.

Enterprise Agreement—Part 5: Leave

27

176.

On ending supporting partner’s leave, employees:
(a) will have access to part-time work
(b) may request a reversion to full time hours within the period of their part-time
agreement
(c) may request variation of part-time hours.
See clauses 117-119 for further information.

Defence Reservists leave
177.

An employee may be granted leave (with or without pay) to enable the employee to
fulfil Australian Defence Force (ADF) Reserve and Continuous Full Time Service
(CFTS) or Cadet Force obligations.

178.

An employee is entitled to leave with pay, of up to four weeks during each financial
year, and an additional two weeks paid leave in the first year of ADF Reserve
Service, for the purpose of fulfilling service in the ADF Reserve.

179.

With the exception of the additional two weeks in the first year of service, leave can
be accumulated and taken over a period of two years.

180.

An employee who is an officer or instructor of cadets in a Cadet Force may be
granted paid leave of up to three weeks each financial year to perform duties as an
officer or instructor of Cadets. For these purposes ‘Cadet Force’ means the Australian
Navy Cadets, Australian Army Cadets, or the Australian Air Force Cadets.

181.

Defence Reserve leave counts as service for all purposes, except for unpaid leave to
undertake Continuous Full Time Service (CFTS). Unpaid leave for the purpose of
CFTS counts for all purposes except annual leave.

Other leave
182.

The Delegate may approve other leave, with or without pay, for any purpose which
the Delegate considers to be in the interests of the ACCC having regard to
operational requirements. More information is in ACCC policy.

183.

When an employee is required or authorised to take leave by legislation, the Delegate
will determine whether the leave will be paid or unpaid, to the extent permissible by
the relevant legislation.

184.

Where the ACCC initiates secondments or where there are special circumstances in
the interests of the ACCC, the Delegate may determine that leave without pay will
count as service. In all other instances, leave without pay will not count as service
unless otherwise required by legislation.

185.

A period of leave granted with pay counts as service.

Public holidays
186.

Employees will be entitled to the following public holidays:
•

New Year’s Day (1 January)

•

Australia Day (26 January)

•

Good Friday

•

Easter Monday

Enterprise Agreement—Part 5: Leave

28

•

Anzac day (25 April or a substitute day)

•

in each state and territory, the day observe to celebrate the anniversary of the
birthday of the Sovereign

•

Christmas Day (25 December)

•

Boxing Day (26 December)

•

an additional day (to be treated as a public holiday for the purposes of this
Agreement) between Christmas Day and New Year’s Day on:
if Christmas Day falls on a Sunday—28 December
if Christmas Day falls on a Monday or a Wednesday—27 December
if Christmas Day falls on a Tuesday—31 December
if Christmas Day falls on a Thursday, Friday or Saturday—29 December.

187.

State, Territory and local public holidays will be observed by employees who work in
that State, Territory, or locality when these days are declared State or Territory law or
gazetted in the relevant State or Territory government gazette.

188.

An employee and the Delegate may agree to substitute any holiday prescribed in
clause 186 and the Christmas shutdown period specified at clause 193 above for a
cultural or religious day of significance to the employee having regard to operational
requirements.

189.

Employees will be paid at the rate of salary applicable on that day, had the day not
been a public holiday.

190.

Where an employee is absent on a day or part-day that is a public holiday, the
employee is entitled to be paid for the day or full day absence as if that day or partday was not a public holiday, except where that person would not normally have
worked on that day.

191.

Where a public holiday falls during a period when an employee is on annual leave or
paid personal leave, the employee is not taken to be on annual leave or personal
leave in accordance with the Fair Work Act. The public holiday will not be counted in
the number of leave days taken by the employee.

192.

Where a public holiday falls during a period when an employee is on leave other than
annual leave or paid personal leave, the holiday will be counted in the period of leave.
Payment for that day will be the same as if it were not a public holiday (for example, if
the employee is absent on long service leave at half pay, the payment for the day will
also be at half pay).

Christmas shutdown
193.

ACCC will shut down at noon on the last working day before Christmas Day and reopen on the first working day after New Year’s Day.

194.

Payment for absences on working days during Christmas shutdown will be made in
accordance with an employee’s usual ordinary hours of work for that day. However,
where an employee would otherwise be absent on leave on that day, the rate of
payment will be in accordance with the payment for that leave entitlement.

195.

An employee required to work during the Christmas shutdown will be paid at overtime
rates at a rate of one and one half.

Enterprise Agreement—Part 5: Leave

29

196.

Where a part-time employee is not rostered to work during any portion of the
shutdown period, the employee may elect to take the equivalent time off by
agreement with their manager.

Portability of leave
197.

Where an employee moves into the ACCC (including on promotion or for an agreed
period) from another agency where they were an ongoing APS employee, the
employee’s unused accrued annual leave and personal leave (however described)
will be transferred, provided there is no break in continuity of service.

198.

Where an employee is engaged by the ACCC immediately following a period of
ongoing employment in the Parliamentary Service or the ACT Government Service,
the employee’s unused accrued annual leave and personal leave (however
described) will be recognised unless the employee received payment in lieu of those
entitlements on termination of employment.

199.

For the purposes of this clause:
(a) APS employee’ has the same meaning as the Public Service Act
(b) ‘Parliamentary service’ refers to engagement under the Parliamentary Services
Act 1999 (Cth).

200.

Where a person is engaged as an ongoing employee by the ACCC, and immediately
prior to the engagement the person was employed as a non-ongoing APS employee
(whether by the ACCC or another APS agency) the Delegate may, at the employee’s
request, recognise any unused, accrued annual leave (excluding accrued leave paid
out on termination of employment) and personal leave (however described).

Unauthorised absence
201.

Where an employee is absent from duty without approval, all payments made to the
employee, including salary, will cease to be available until the employee resumes
duty or is granted leave.

202.

Any period of unauthorised absence does not count as service.

Enterprise Agreement—Part 5: Leave

30

Part 6: Other working conditions and allowances
Overtime
203.

A full-time employee with a classification of APS 6 or below will be paid overtime
when directed by their manager to work outside standard working hours. International
travel does not attract overtime. Where operational requirements do not permit prior
direction, overtime can be subsequently approved by the employee’s manager.
Further information about overtime can be found in ACCC policy.

204.

A part-time employee with a classification of APS 6 or below will be paid overtime
when directed by their manager to work:
(a) outside the employee’s agreed hours or
(b) more than the total number of agreed hours in the employee’s settlement period.

205.

Where overtime is continuous with ordinary duty, overtime will be paid for actual time
worked. If overtime is not continuous with ordinary duty, an employee will paid a
minimum of 2 hours of overtime.

206.

Subject to clauses 210-212, overtime is calculated at the multiplier of time and one
half of the employee’s salary.

207.

Where an employee works any period of overtime, the employee is entitled to an 8
hour break plus actual travelling time (break following overtime) before
recommencing work without any loss of pay. Where a break following overtime is not
possible due to operational requirements, the employee will be paid at the multiplier
of time and one half for work at any time until the employee is able to take their break
following overtime.

208.

An employee will be provided with a taxi voucher or other reimbursement for taxi
travel to and from their home where necessary.

209.

An employee should have a break after each five hours of work.

210.

Where an employee has been directed by their manager to work more than 15 hours
of overtime in any 7 day period, the full period of overtime will be paid at the multiplier
of double time until the employee has a one day break from work. The one day break
may be a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday.

211.

Where an employee has been directed by their manager to work more than 10 hours
of overtime on one weekend or on one weekend and one adjoining public holiday, the
full period of overtime worked on the same weekend or the same weekend and
adjoining public holiday will be paid at the multiplier of double time.

212.

Where an employee is not on-call (see clause 224) and is called into work to meet an
emergency outside flexible hours of attendance, the employee will be paid at a
multiplier of double time for:
(a) any reasonable time spent travelling to work and
(b) the overtime worked outside the flexible hours of attendance.

Time off in lieu
213.

An employee entitled to be paid overtime may elect to take time off in lieu of overtime,
except where the employee has reached the maximum carryover of flex credit, in

Enterprise Agreement—Part 6: Other working conditions and allowances

31

which case an overtime payment must be made. The time off will be calculated
according to the multiplier which would be applicable if the employee elected to be
paid overtime.

Executive level employees
214.

The Delegate may direct that an executive level employee be paid overtime in
exceptional circumstances. Overtime will be paid at a multiplier of one and one half
unless one of the circumstances in clauses 210-22 applies.

Temporary performance at a higher work value
215.

The Delegate may assign an employee work at a higher work value on a temporary
basis. Where the period of temporary performance at a higher work value will or does
extend beyond three months, the Delegate will usually require an internal selection
process.

216.

Where an employee has temporarily performed work at a higher work value for a
continuous period of five working days or more (not including any days worked
outside standard working hours), or in the case of a job-share arrangement, five
working days at the higher level, the employee will be paid for that work at a rate
consistent with the work level standards for the work being performed as determined
by the Delegate. An employee may be paid a portion of the rate where they will not
be performing work at a higher value full time.

217.

At the discretion of the Delegate, an employee temporarily performing work at a
higher work value for a period of fewer than 5 working days (not including any days
worked outside standard working hours) may receive payment at the rate consistent
with the higher work level standard in exceptional circumstances.

218.

Where an employee is temporarily performing work at a higher work value, any
resulting additional payment is treated as salary for the purpose of determining other
allowances.

219.

Where an employee is temporarily performing work at a higher work value, the
provisions of this Agreement for the higher classification will apply to the employee
(for example, overtime).

220.

Where an employee is temporarily performing work at a higher work value, they will
continue to receive any resulting additional payment while on paid leave and during
public holidays, for the approved period of the temporary performance at the higher
work value.

221.

Where an employee is temporarily performing work at a higher value, they will be
eligible for salary progression in accordance with clause 69.

222.

Further information about temporary performance at a higher work value can be
found in ACCC policy.

223.

Where an employee is required to undertake the duties of a Senior Executive Service
(SES) position, the pay and conditions of the employee will be determined by the
Delegate.

On-call duty
224.

An employee with a classification of APS 6 or below will be paid on-call duty when
directed by the Delegate to be contactable and available to perform duty outside the

Enterprise Agreement—Part 6: Other working conditions and allowances

32

standard working hours of the employee. Where operational requirements do not
permit prior direction, on-call duty may be subsequently approved by the employee’s
manager.
225.

226.

An employee who is on-call to perform duty will be paid an allowance as set out
below:
Period of on-call

Rate of payment

Monday to Friday (outside standard
working hours)

7.5% of the employee’s hourly rate of salary

Saturday or Sunday

10% of the employee’s hourly rate of salary

Public Holiday

15% of the employee’s hourly rate of salary

When an employee is on-call and is directed to work outside flexible working hours,
the employee will be paid overtime at a multiplier of one and one half for:
(a) no less than 1 hour if the employee is not required to travel to the workplace, or
(b) no less than 2 hours plus actual travel time if the employee is required to travel to
the workplace.

227.

On-call duty is not payable for any period for which the employee receives another
type of paid allowance (including overtime), was not contactable or was not available.

228.

The Delegate may direct that an executive level employee be paid on-call duty in
exceptional circumstances. Overtime for any work will be paid in accordance with
clause 214.

Healthy lifestyle reimbursement
229.

An employee may claim a single reimbursement of up to $299.99, to be paid after 31
March each year, for healthy lifestyle expenses in the previous year provided:
(a) the employee has been employed by the ACCC for a minimum of 3 months prior
to making a claim
(b) the claimed expenses were incurred while employed by the ACCC
(c) the employee makes the claim by 31 March in any year and
(d) the claimed expenses were incurred during the claim period from 1 April of the
previous year and 31 March of the claim year.

230.

Further information can be found in ACCC policy.

Workplace responsibility allowance
231.

A Workplace Responsibility Allowance (WRA) of $24.72 per fortnight (and $25.21
from 12 months after commencement, $25.46 from 24 months after commencement)
will be paid to employees for undertaking the following workplace responsibility roles:
•

First Aid Officer

•

Fire Warden

•

Health and Safety Representative

•

Workplace Contact Officer.

Enterprise Agreement—Part 6: Other working conditions and allowances

33

232.

Employees who undertake more than one of the above workplace responsibility roles
will only receive one payment of the allowance per fortnight.

233.

An employee will no longer be eligible for the WRA if:
(a) the employee commences a planned period of paid or unpaid leave (other than
long service leave) for 12 weeks or more in which case the WRA will cease to be
paid from the first day of the leave or
(b) the employee is unexpectedly on paid or unpaid leave (other than long service
leave) for 12 weeks or more in which case the WRA will cease to be paid from the
day after the final day of the 12 weeks.

234.

Further information about the WRA can be found in ACCC policy.

Allowances
Variation to allowances or working conditions
235.

The levels of the following allowances and accommodation rates are reviewed by the
Delegate every 1 July.

Travel allowance
236.

The amount payable as a travel allowance will be determined annually following a
review of the annual Taxation Determination issued by the Commissioner of Taxation
stating the reasonable amounts for domestic and international travel allowance
expenses. Payment information, including the applicable rates, is available in ACCC
policy. Rates will not exceed the maximum amount that is relevant to the employee
as indicated in the Taxation Determinations issued by the Commissioner of Taxation
annually.

237.

For part day travel which does not involve an overnight stay, an employee travelling
on official business for a period of 10 hours or more will be paid a part day travel
allowance of $60 for meals and incidental expenses.

238.

An employee who undertakes travel on official business and is required to be absent
from their usual place of work overnight will have their reasonable costs of
accommodation met by the ACCC and be paid an allowance for meals and incidental
expenses.

239.

In calculating the allowances payable under clauses 236-238 time involved in official
travel by rail or air will include 90 minutes before the scheduled time of departure
from the city of the employee’s usual place of work and 90 minutes after the time of
the employee’s return to that city. For all other means of travel, the actual times of
departure from and return to the city of their headquarters will be used. The
allowance for meals and incidentals is inclusive of the goods and services tax.

Meal allowance
240.

The amount payable as a meal allowance will be determined annually following a
review of the annual Taxation Determination issued by the Commissioner of Taxation
stating the reasonable amounts for overtime meal allowance expenses. The amount
of meal allowance will be based on the relevant Taxation Determination.

241.

If an employee is required to work by their manager attracting the payment of
overtime (see clause 203), the employee will be paid a meal allowance in accordance
with the time periods and minimum hours worked in the following table:

Enterprise Agreement—Part 6: Other working conditions and allowances

34

Employee
type

Overtime period

Min hrs to
be
worked

Type of working day

Full time

Commenced 0600
hrs or earlier

Five

Normal working day

Full time

Commenced at or
before 1200 &
ceased at or after
1400 hrs

Five

Weekend, public holiday

Part time

Commenced at or
before 1200 &
ceased at or after
1400 hrs

Five

Normal working day outside
of part-time work schedule

Full time

at work at 2000 hrs
or later

Two

Normal working day,
weekend, public holiday.

Part time

at work at 2000 hrs
or later

Two

Normal working day,
weekend, public holiday; if
outside part-time work
schedule

Full time

at work at 0000 hrs

Two

Normal working day,
weekend, public holiday

Part time

Part time

Motor vehicle allowance
242.

The Delegate may authorise an employee to use a private motor vehicle, or a vehicle
hired by the employee, for official purposes where it will result in greater efficiency or
be of less expense to the ACCC.

243.

An employee authorised to use, or hire, a private motor vehicle for official purposes
will be entitled to a motor vehicle allowance. The amount of the allowance will be
based on the relevant Taxation Determination.

Living away from home allowance
244.

The Delegate will determine appropriate allowances where an employee is required
to be temporarily absent from their usual place of work on official business in one
locality for more than two weeks.

245.

The Delegate will also determine appropriate allowances where an employee
participates in an approved employee development program. Further information
about the living away from home allowance can be found in ACCC policy.

Relocation assistance
246.

Where an employee is required by the ACCC to relocate to a different geographic
location upon commencement, promotion, transfer, ongoing reassignment or
temporary reassignment in excess of 12 months, the employee may be paid
relocation assistance.

Enterprise Agreement—Part 6: Other working conditions and allowances

35

247.

In exceptional circumstances, where an employee instigates a relocation, the
employee may be paid relocation assistance at the discretion of the Delegate.

248.

Further information about relocation assistance can be found in ACCC policy.

Studies assistance scheme
249.

Where a manager and an ongoing employee agree that formal study through an
accredited institution is appropriate, the employee may apply for assistance in the
form of leave or financial assistance. Further information about the studies assistance
scheme can be found in ACCC policy.

Employee assistance
250.

Employees and their immediate family will have access to the ACCC's Employee
Assistance Program (EAP) for personal or work related problems.

251.

Employees will have reasonable paid time to seek assistance and advice on
employment issues during work time from any person, subject to operational
requirements and their manager’s prior approval.

Loss, damage and indemnity
252.

The Delegate may approve reimbursement to an employee for loss or damage to
clothing or personal effects which occurs in the course of the employee's work.

253.

The Delegate has the discretion to reimburse an employee for expenses reasonably
and unavoidably incurred in carrying out the ACCC's functions.

Enterprise Agreement—Part 6: Other working conditions and allowances

36

Part 7: Cooperative working relationship
Representation
254.

The ACCC allows employees the right to representation and freedom of association
in the workplace.

255.

In any matter arising under this Agreement an employee may choose any person to
support or represent them and the ACCC and that person will deal with each other in
good faith.

Employee consultation
256.

To provide ACCC management with effective input from employees, the ACCC will
establish an Employee Council. Without limiting its freedom to make business
decisions, the ACCC will consult with the Employee Council about employment and
workplace relations matters including matters associated with the implementation and
operation of this agreement.

257.

The Employee Council will comprise three SES and up to 14 non-SES members and
will be governed by a Terms of Reference.

258.

Any change to Employee Council Terms of Reference will be subject to consultation
with the Employee Council.

259.

The Employee Council will meet at least quarterly. At least one meeting each year will
be a face-to-face meeting of members of the Council with all other meetings being
convened via VCU.

260.

The ACCC may undertake broader consultation with employees outside the
Employee Council to promote employee satisfaction and welfare, and organisational
productivity, through a cooperative working relationship.

Consultation on major change
261.

This provision applies when the ACCC:
(a) has made a definite decision to introduce a major change to its organisation,
structure, or technology that is likely to have a significant effect on employees of
the ACCC or
(b) proposes to introduce a change to the standard working hours or regular roster of
work of employees.

262.

In this provision, a major change is likely to have a significant effect on employees if it
results in any of the below:
(a) the termination of the employment of employees
(b) major change to the composition, operation or size of the ACCC’s workforce or to
the skills required of employees
(c) the elimination or diminution of job opportunities (including opportunities for
promotion or tenure)
(d) the alteration of hours of work
(e) the need to retrain employees
(f) the need to relocate employees to another workplace

Enterprise Agreement—Part 7: Cooperative working relationship

37

(g) the restructuring of jobs.
263.

In this provision, ‘relevant employees’ means the employees who may be affected by
the major change.

Major change
264.

For a major change referred to in clause 261(a):
(a) the ACCC must notify the relevant employees of the decision to introduce the
major change and
(b) clauses 265 to 270 apply.

265.

The relevant employees may appoint a representative for the purposes of the
procedures in this provision.

266.

If:
(a) a relevant employee appoints, or relevant employees appoint, a representative for
the purposes of consultation
(b) the employee or employees advise the ACCC of the identity of the representative,
the ACCC must recognise the representative.

267.

As soon as practicable after making its decision, the ACCC must:
(a) discuss with the relevant employees:
i.

the introduction of the change

ii.

the effect the change is likely to have on the employees

iii.

measures the ACCC is taking to avert or mitigate the adverse effect of the
change on the employees and

(b) for the purposes of the discussion—provide, in writing, to the relevant employees:
i.

all relevant information about the change including the nature of the
change proposed

ii.

information about the expected effects of the change on the employees

iii.

any other matters likely to affect the employees.

268.

However, the ACCC is not required to disclose confidential or commercially sensitive
information to the relevant employees.

269.

The ACCC must give prompt and genuine consideration to matters raised about the
major change by the relevant employees.

270.

If a clause in the Agreement provides for a major change to the ACCC’s organisation,
structure or technology, the requirements set out in clauses 264(a), 265 and 267 are
taken not to apply.

Change to standard working hours or regular roster of work
271.

For a change referred to in clause 261(b):
(a) the employer must notify the relevant employees of the proposed change and
(b) clauses 272 to 276 apply.

Enterprise Agreement—Part 7: Cooperative working relationship

38

272.

The employees who may be affected by a change referred to in clause 261(b)
(relevant employees) may appoint a representative for the purposes of the
procedures in these clauses.

273.

If:
(a) a relevant employee appoints, or relevant employees appoint, a representative for
the purposes of consultation and
(b) the employee or employees advise the employer of the identity of the
representative
the employer must recognise the representative.

274.

As soon as practicable after proposing to introduce the change, the ACCC must:
(a) discuss with the relevant employees the introduction of the change; and for the
purposes of the discussion, provide to the relevant employees:
i.

all relevant information about the change, including the nature of the
change

ii.

information about what the employer reasonably believes will be the effects
of the change on the employees and

iii.

information about any other matters that the employer reasonably believes
are likely to affect the employees and

(b) invite the relevant employees to give their views about the impact of the change
(including any impact in relation to their family or caring responsibilities).
275.

However, the employer is not required to disclose confidential or commercially
sensitive information to the relevant employees.

276.

The employer must give prompt and genuine consideration to matters raised about
the change by the relevant employees.

Dispute settlement procedures
277.

If a dispute relates to:
(a) a matter arising under the Agreement
(b) the National Employment Standards
this section sets out procedures to settle the dispute.

278.

An employee who is a party to the dispute may appoint a representative for the
purposes of this section.

279.

In the first instance, the parties to the dispute must try to resolve the dispute at the
workplace level, by discussions between the employee or employees concerned and
the relevant supervisor or supervisors and/or management.

280.

If discussions at the workplace level do not resolve the dispute, a party to the dispute
may refer the matter to FWC.

281.

FWC may deal with the dispute in two stages:
(a) FWC will first attempt to resolve the dispute as it considers appropriate, including
by mediation, conciliation, expressing an opinion, or making a recommendation
(b) if FWC is unable to resolve the dispute at the first stage, FWC may then:
i.

arbitrate the dispute

Enterprise Agreement—Part 7: Cooperative working relationship

39

ii.

make a determination that is binding on the parties.

282.

If FWC arbitrates the dispute, it may also use the powers that are available to it under
the Fair Work Act. A decision that FWC makes when arbitrating a dispute is a
decision for the purpose of Div 3 of Part 5.1 of the Act. Therefore, an appeal may be
made against the decision.

283.

While the parties are trying to resolve the dispute using the procedures in this section:
(a) an employee must continue to perform his or her work as he or she would
normally in accordance with established custom and practice at the ACCC that
existed prior to the dispute arising, unless he or she has a reasonable concern
about an imminent risk to his or her health or safety
(b) an employee must comply with a direction given by the employer to perform other
available work at the same workplace, or at another workplace, unless:

284.

i.

the work is not safe

ii.

applicable occupational health and safety legislation would not permit the
work to be performed

iii.

the work is not appropriate for the employee to perform

iv.

there are other reasonable grounds for the employee to refuse to comply
with the direction.

The parties to the dispute agree to be bound by a decision made by FWC in
accordance with this section.

Discrimination free workplace
285.

The ACCC is committed to the fair and equitable treatment of all employees and to
supporting an inclusive, safe, fair, productive and successful workplace that is free
from discrimination and harassment.

286.

To support a work environment free from discrimination and harassment,
management and employees are responsible for ensuring that they are aware of what
constitutes discrimination, bullying and harassment and for taking all reasonable
steps to prevent and eliminate unlawful discrimination.

287.

For information about behaviour at work employees should refer to ACCC policy.

Enterprise Agreement—Part 7: Cooperative working relationship

40

Part 8: Workplace adjustment
Excess employees
288.

The excess employee provisions are outlined in Attachment G.

Termination of employment
289.

Nothing in this Agreement prevents the Delegate from terminating the employment of
an employee for serious misconduct, without further notice or payment in lieu, in
accordance with the Fair Work Act, subject to compliance with the procedures
established by the Delegate for determining whether an employee has breached the
code of conduct under s. 15 of the Public Service Act.

Enterprise Agreement—Part 8: Workplace adjustment

41

Attachment A: ACCC broadband—general
A.1.

The following table details the ACCC classification structure and rates of pay:

ACCC
Broadband

APS
Classification

Pay
Range

As at
30 June
2016

Following 3%
salary increase
on
commencement

Following
2% salary
increase 12
months
after
commencement

Following
1% salary
increase 24
months
after
commencement

One

APS 1

Base

44830

46175

47099

47570

Cap

49550

51037

52058

52579

Base

50733

52255

53300

53833

Cap

56257

57945

59104

59695

Base

57783

59516

60706

61313

Cap

62370

64241

65526

66181

Base

64408

66340

67667

68344

Cap

69930

72028

73469

74204

Base

71837

73992

75472

76227

Cap

76172

78457

80026

80826

Base

79517

81903

83541

84376

Cap

89125

91799

93635

94571

Base

98797

101761

103796

104834

Cap

109339

112619

114871

116020

Base

114539

117975

120335

121538

Cap

134229

138256

141021

142431

Transition point

APS 2
Transition point

APS 3

Two

APS 4
Transition point

APS 5

APS 6

EL1

EL2

Enterprise Agreement—Attachment A: ACCC broadband—General

42

Attachment B: Internal Lawyer broadband
B.1.

The following table details the Internal Lawyer classification structure and rates of
pay:
Following 3%
salary increase
on commencement

Following
2% salary
increase 12
months
after
commencement

Following
1% salary
increase 24
months
after
commencement

Lawyer
Broadband

APS
Classification

Pay
Range

As at
30
June
2016

One

APS3

(Fixed)

62370

64241

65526

66181

Base

64408

66340

67667

68344

Cap

69930

72028

73469

74204

(Fixed)

76172

78457

80026

80826

APS4
APS5

Transition point: see paragraphs 42–52
Base

79517

81903

83541

84376

Cap

89125

91799

93635

94571

APS6
Transition point: see paragraphs 42–52
Base

98797

101761

103796

104834

Cap

122901

126588

129120

130411

Base

129880

133776

136452

137817

Cap

137664

141794

144630

146076

EL 1
Two

EL 2

Enterprise Agreement—Attachment B: Internal Lawyer broadband

43

Attachment C: Graduate broadband
C.1.

The following table details the classification structure and rates of pay for Graduate
APS:

Graduate
Broadband

APS
Classification

Pay
Range

As at
30 June
2016

Following
3% salary
increase on
commencement

Following
2% salary
increase
12 months
after
commencement

Following
1% salary
increase
24 months
after
commence
-ment

GAPS 1 Graduate
APS

GAPS A

56257

57945

59104

59695

GAPS B

59288

61067

62288

62911

GAPS 2 APS 3

GAPS C

59288

61067

62288

62911

APS 4

GAPS D

64408

66340

67667

68344

Enterprise Agreement—Attachment C: Graduate broadband

44

Attachment D: IAGDP broadband
D.1.

The following table details the classification structure and rates of pay for employees
participating in the IAGDP:

IAGDP
Broadband

APS
Classificatio
n

As at
30
June
2016

Following 3%
salary increase
on
commencement

Following 2%
salary increase
12 months after
commencement

Following 1%
salary increase
24 months after
commencement

IAGDP 1

APS 3

57783

59516

60706

61313

IAGDP 2

APS 4

64408

66340

67667

68344

Enterprise Agreement—Attachment D: IAGDP Broadband

45

Attachment E: ACCC junior rates of pay
E.1.

The following table details the junior rates of pay:

Age

ACCC
Broadband

APS
Classification

Under
18
(60%)

Broadband
1

APS 1

As at
30 June
2016

Following 3%
salary increase
on
commencement

Following 2%
salary increase
12 months after
commencement

Following
1% salary
increase
24 months after
commencement

26897

27704

28258

28541

Employees 18 years and over are paid adult rates of pay.

Enterprise Agreement—Attachment E: ACCC junior rates of pay

46

Attachment F: Supported Wage System
F.1.

This attachment defines the conditions which will apply to employees who because of
the effects of a disability are eligible for a supported wage under the terms of this
Agreement.

F.2.

In this attachment:
Approved assessor means a person accredited by the management unit
established by the Commonwealth under the supported wage system to perform
assessments of an individual’s productive capacity within the supported wage system
Assessment instrument means the tool provided for under the supported wage
system that records the assessment of the productive capacity of the person to be
employed under the supported wage system
Disability Support Pension means the Commonwealth Government pension
scheme to provide income security for persons with a disability as provided under the
Social Security Act 1991 (Cth), as amended from time to time, or any successor to
that scheme
Relevant minimum wage means the minimum wage prescribed in this award for the
class of work for which an employee is engaged
Supported Wage System (SWS) means the Commonwealth Government system to
promote employment for people who cannot work at full award wages because of a
disability, as documented in the Supported Wage System Handbook. The Handbook
is available from the JobAccess website (www.jobaccess.gov.au)
SWS wage assessment agreement means the document in the form required by
the Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations that records the
employee’s productive capacity and agreed wage rate

Eligibility criteria
F.3.

Employees covered by this schedule will be those who are unable to perform the
range of duties to the competence level required within the class for which the
employee is engaged under this award, because of the effects of a disability on their
productive capacity and who meet the impairment criteria for receipt of a disability
support pension.

F.4.

The schedule does not apply to any existing employee who has a claim against the
employer which is subject to the provisions of workers compensation legislation or
any provision of this award relating to the rehabilitation of employees who are injured
in the course of their employment.

Enterprise Agreement—Attachment F: Supported Wage System

47

Supported wage rates
F.5.

Employees to whom this clause applies shall be paid the applicable percentage of the
relevant minimum wage according to the following schedule.
Assessed capacity

% of prescribed award rate

10%

10%

20%

20%

30%

30%

40%

40%

50%

50%

60%

60%

70%

70%

80%

80%

90%

90%

F.6.

Provided that the minimum amount payable must be not less than $82 per week.

F.7.

Where an employee’s assessed capacity is 10%; they must receive a high degree of
assistance and support.

Assessment of capacity
F.8.

For the purposes of establishing the percentage of the relevant minimum wage, the
productive capacity of the employee will be assessed in accordance with the
Supported Wage System by an approved assessor, having consulted the employer
and the employee, and if the employee so desires, an industrial association which the
employee is eligible to join.

F.9.

Assessment made under this schedule must be documented in a SWS wage
assessment agreement, and retained by the employer as a time and wages record in
accordance with the Act.

Lodgement of SWS wage assessment agreement
F.10. All SWS wage assessment agreements under the conditions of this schedule,
including the appropriate percentage of the relevant minimum wage to be paid to the
employee, must be lodged by the employer with the Fair Work Commission.
F.11. All SWS wage assessment agreements must be agreed and signed by the employee
and employer parties to the assessment. Where an industrial association which has
an interest in the award is not a party to the assessment, the assessment will be
referred by the Fair Work Commission to the industrial association by certified mail
and the agreement will take effect unless an objection is notified to the Fair Work
Commission within 10 working days.

Review of assessment
F.12. The assessment of the applicable percentage should be subject to annual review or
more frequent review on the basis of a reasonable request for such a review. The
Enterprise Agreement—Attachment F: Supported Wage System

48

process of review must be in accordance with the procedures for assessing capacity
under the support wage system.

Other terms and conditions of employment
F.13. Where an assessment has been made, the applicable percentage will apply to the
relevant wage rate only. Employees covered by the provisions of the schedule will be
entitled to the same terms and conditions of employment as all other workers covered
by this award paid on a pro rata basis.

Workplace adjustment
F.14. An employer wishing to employ a person under the provisions of this schedule must
take reasonable steps to make changes in the workplace to enhance the employee’s
capacity to do the job. Changes may involve redesign of job duties, working time
arrangements and work organisation in consultation with other workers in the area.

Trial period
F.15. In order for an adequate assessment of the employee’s capacity to be made, an
employer may employ a person under the provisions of this schedule for a Trial
Period not exceeding 12 weeks, except that in some cases additional work
adjustment time (not exceeding four weeks) may be needed.
F.16. During that Trial Period the assessment of capacity will be undertaken and the
percentage of the relevant minimum wage for a continuing employment relationship
will be determined.
F.17. The minimum amount payable to the employee during the Trial Period must be no
less than $82 per week.
F.18. Work trials should include induction or training as appropriate to the job being trialled.
F.19. Where the employer and employee wish to establish a continuing employment
relationship following the completion of the Trial Period, a further contract of
employment will be entered into based on the outcome of assessment under clause
F.8.

Enterprise Agreement—Attachment F: Supported Wage System

49

Attachment G: Excess employees
Meaning of excess employee
G.1.

An employee may be an excess employee for the purposes of this attachment if at
least one of the following applies:
(a) the number of employees is greater than is necessary for the efficient and
economical working of the ACCC (‘too many of a kind’ situation)
(b) the services of an employee cannot be effectively used because of technological
or other changes in work methods or changes in the nature, extent or organisation
of the functions of the ACCC (‘change affected’ situation)
(c) the duties usually performed by the employee are to be performed in a different
locality and the employee is not willing to perform the duties at the other locality
and the Delegate has determined that these provisions will apply to that employee
(‘change affected’ situation).

Definitions
G.2.

Under this attachment the following definitions apply:
Term

Definition

consideration
period

is a period of 2 months commencing from the time the Delegate has
invited an employee to elect for redundancy which may be extended in
accordance with clause G.12

salary

Includes:

retention period

i.

base annual salary

ii.

payment for temporary performance at a higher work value if
the employee was entitled to receive the payment for a
continuous period of at least 1 year immediately before the
employee is invited to elect for redundancy

iii.

workplace responsibility allowance, where the employee was
entitled to receive the allowance for a continuous period of at
least 1 year immediately before the employee is invited to elect
for redundancy.

is a period of 56 or 30 weeks depending on length of service and
commencing the day after the final day of the consideration period
which may be extended in accordance with clause G.28
Length of service (years)

Retention period (weeks)

Where the employee has
20 years or more service
or is over 45 years of age:

56

For all other employees:

30

If an employee is entitled to a redundancy pay under the
National Employment Standards, the relevant retention period
outlined above is reduced by the number of weeks
redundancy pay that the employee will be entitled to under
the NES on termination.

Enterprise Agreement—Attachment G: Excess employees

50

service for
retention period
and severance
pay

•

service at the ACCC

•

Government service as defined in s.10 of the Long Service
Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1976

•

service with the Commonwealth (other than service with a joint
Commonwealth-state body corporate in which the
Commonwealth has a controlling interest) which is recognised
for long service leave purposes

•

service with the Australian Defence Forces

•

APS service immediately preceding deemed resignation under
repealed s.49 of the Public Service Act 1922, if the service has
not previously been recognised for severance pay purposes

•

service in another organisation where:
(a) an employee was moved from the APS to give effect to an
administrative re-arrangement;
(b) an employee of that organisation is engaged as an APS
employee as a result of an administrative arrangement and
such service is recognised for long service leave
purposes.

For earlier periods of service to count, there must be no breaks
between the periods of service except where:
•

the break in service is less than one month and occurs where
an offer of employment with the new employer was made and
accepted by the employee before ceasing employment with
the preceding employer

•

the earlier period of service was with the APS and ceased
because the employee was deemed to have resigned from the
APS on marriage pursuant to the repealed s. 49 of the Public
Service Act 1922.

•

Any period of service which ceased pursuant to s. 29(3) or
29(4) of the Public Service Act or the equivalent previous
sections of the repealed Public Service Act 1922, or an
equivalent provision under other Commonwealth legislation,
including termination with the payment of a redundancy benefit
or similar payment or an employer financed retirement benefit,
will not count as service for severance pay purposes.

Absences from duty which do not count as service will not count
as service for severance pay or retention period purposes.

Application
G.3.

These provisions do not apply to non-ongoing employees and employees on
probation.

G.4.

An employee may be invited to elect for redundancy under clause G.12 where the
employee is not fit for, and not at, work in accordance with the paragraphs below only
where the Delegate, having regard to the Commonwealth’s liability, decides it is
appropriate.

Enterprise Agreement—Attachment G: Excess employees

51

Expression of interest process
G.5.

Where the Delegate considers the too many of a kind situation (clause G.1(a)) has
arisen, the Delegate will:
(a) advise affected employees in writing that this is the case
(b) explore redeployment options for excess staff both internally and through the
wider APS
(c) invite affected employees, and if appropriate, other employees with whom job
swaps may be possible, to express interest in redundancy on a without prejudice
basis and
(d) consider any expressions of interest.

G.6.

The Delegate may invite an employee to elect for redundancy under clause G.7
where the employee has expressed interest in redundancy.

Excess employee process
G.7.

The Delegate may decide an employee is potentially excess where:
(a) the too many of a kind situation (clause G.1(a)) has not been resolved through the
expression of interest process or
(b) the Delegate has determined that an employee is change affected (clause G.1(b)
and (c)).

G.8.

When the Delegate decides that an employee is potentially excess, the Delegate will:
(a) advise the employee in writing that they are excess and
(b) invite the employee to elect for redundancy.
The invitation to elect for redundancy (invitation) must state the date of termination if
the employee elects for redundancy, explain the excess employee process and
provide a point of contact for questions and concerns.

G.9.

Only one invitation will be made to an employee during each excess employee
process.

G.10. The consideration period commences on the date the invitation is provided to the
employee.
G.11. The consideration period may be reduced at the employee’s request if:
(a) the employee advises the Delegate that they have received all of the financial
information in clause G.16 and
(b) the Delegate agrees.
When the consideration period is shortened, the employee will, on termination of
employment, be paid in lieu for the period by which the consideration period was
reduced.
G.12. The Delegate may extend the consideration period by up to one week where the
employee is absent during the consideration period on personal leave. A medical
certificate must be provided for any period of personal leave. The Delegate may
extend the consideration period by up to 4 weeks where the Delegate considers
compelling reasons exist.

Enterprise Agreement—Attachment G: Excess employees

52

G.13. The employee must advise the Delegate in writing before the end of the consideration
period whether the employee wishes to elect for redundancy or redeployment.
G.14. If an employee elects for redundancy, and the Delegate accepts that election, the
Delegate will give the employee written notice of the termination. Termination will be
on the date set out in the Delegate’s invitation unless another time has been agreed
between the Delegate and the employee.
G.15. Where an employee is excess and does not wish to elect for redundancy, the
employee may swap jobs with an employee from within the ACCC or from another
APS agency who is not excess but who wishes to elect for redundancy. A job swap is
subject to the Delegate’s approval and the approval of the other employee’s agency
head, if relevant.

Financial information
G.16. When an employee is invited to elect for redundancy under clause G.7(b), the
Delegate will provide the employee with an estimate of the following entitlements:
(a) the amount of severance pay
(b) pay in lieu of notice and
(c) accrued leave entitlements.
G.17. The information provided in the clause above is to assist the employee to assess their
options. It is not capable of giving rise to contractual obligations.
G.18. Where an employee is invited to elect for redundancy, they will be entitled to a
maximum of $400 for the purpose of seeking financial advice, subject to the
agreement of the Delegate.

Career transition assistance
G.19. During the consideration period, the employee will be provided with career transition
assistance which will include each of the following:
(a) assistance with identifying redeployment opportunities
(b) active canvassing and support for job swaps
(c) training/redeployment assistance.

Severance pay
G.20. Where an employee’s employment is terminated because the employee has elected
for redundancy under clause G.14, the employee is entitled to be paid severance pay
consisting of both the following:
(a) 2 weeks’ salary for each completed continuous year of service
(b) a pro rata payment for completed continuous months of service since the last
completed year of service.
The minimum amount of severance pay is an amount equal to four weeks’ salary and
the maximum amount payable is an amount equal to 48 weeks’ salary (subject to any
minimum amount the employee is entitled to under the National Employment
Standards).
G.21. Severance pay is calculated on a pro rata basis for any period of service the
employee worked part-time.

Enterprise Agreement—Attachment G: Excess employees

53

G.22. An employee who resigns or whose employment is terminated during, or at the end
of, the retention period, is not entitled to severance pay under this Agreement.

Redeployment
G.23. If the employee does not accept the invitation to elect for redundancy or does not
express a preference, the employee will move into the retention period and be
considered for redeployment.

Retention period
G.24. During the retention period, the following will apply:
(a) the ACCC will continue to provide and resource career transition services and
support and take all reasonable steps to redeploy an excess employee to a
suitable vacancy, including, where reasonable and/or possible, vacancies in
another agency, including outside the APS and
(b) an employee must take all reasonable steps to facilitate their redeployment.

Redeployment services
G.25. During the retention period, the following will apply at the Delegate’s discretion:
(a) an employee can access up to $3000 for payment of external redeployment
services or training opportunities that will, in the Delegate’s view, enhance the
employment prospects of the employee
(b) excess employees will be considered first, and in isolation from, and not in
competition with, other applicants who are not excess for an advertised vacancy
in the ACCC
(c) suitable trial placements in another organisation including private sector
organisations will be funded for up to 3 months where there is an identifiable
opportunity for ongoing redeployment and no job swap arrangement is involved;
an excess employee may undertake more than one trial placement
(d) leave with full pay, where reasonable in the circumstances, to attend necessary
employment interviews and where expenses to attend interviews are not met by
the prospective employer, reimbursement of reasonable travel expenses.
G.26. If a suitable vacancy does not exist at the same level within the ACCC, the Delegate
may reassign the employee to duties at a lower classification. If this occurs, the
employee will be entitled to income maintenance for the remainder of the retention
period to maintain their level of salary. Where the Delegate proposes to reduce an
excess employee’s classification, the employee will be given at least 1 month’s notice
of the reduction.
G.27. Where it is necessary, as a result of redeployment, for an excess employee to move
the employee’s household to a new locality, the employee will be entitled to
reasonable relocation assistance in accordance with clause 246.

Personal leave during retention period
G.28. The Delegate may extend the retention period for periods of personal leave where the
period is a continuous absence of five days or more. The retention period will not be
extended for other absences except where the Delegate considers that compelling
reasons exist and the employee’s ability to participate in the redeployment process
has been significantly affected by the absences. The total aggregated period of
extension to the retention period cannot exceed 4 weeks.
Enterprise Agreement—Attachment G: Excess employees

54

Termination during retention period
G.29. Where the Delegate determines there is insufficient productive work available for an
excess employee during the retention period, the Delegate may terminate the
employment of the employee with or without the employee’s agreement, before the
end of the retention period, but only after consulting the employee and the
employee’s representative (if the employee so wishes).
G.30. If an excess employee consents to termination during the retention period, the
Delegate may terminate the employment of the employee before the end of the
retention period.
G.31. Where the employment of an excess employee is terminated by the Delegate under
s. 29 of the Public Service Act during the retention period the employee will receive a
payment in lieu of their salary for the remainder of the retention period.
G.32. The employee’s date of termination when the employee is terminated during the
retention period will be the date specified by the Delegate in the notice of termination.

Termination at the end of retention period
G.33. The employment of an excess employee who has not been redeployed at the end of
the retention period may be terminated under s. 29 of the Public Service Act without
their consent. Termination will take effect at the end of the retention period, unless
the retention period is extended (clause G.28).
G.34. In deciding whether to terminate the employment of an excess employee, the
Delegate will take account of any redeployment process that may be in progress.

Notice of termination (notice period)
G.35. An employee’s employment is terminated under clause G.14, G.29, G.30 or G.33 by
the Delegate giving the employee a notice of termination of employment under s.29 of
the Public Service Act. If the employee is at least 45 years old and has at least five
years’ continuous service, the notice period is five weeks; in any other case the notice
period is four weeks.
G.36. The Delegate may terminate the employment of an employee before the end of the
notice period. If this occurs, the employee will receive a payment in lieu of notice. The
payment will be the amount of salary which the employee would have received had
the employee worked until the end of the notice period.
G.37. Where an employee’s employment is terminated at the end of a retention period, the
notice of termination will be given to the employee during the retention period to run
concurrently with the retention period.

Enterprise Agreement—Attachment G: Excess employees

55

Index
Paragraph(s)
Absence, unauthorised

201–202

ACCC policy

7–10, 16

Adoption

160–161, 171–172

Advancement

41–43

Allowances—accommodation

238

Allowances—healthy lifestyle reimbursement

229–230

Allowances—living away from home

244–245

Allowances—meal

238, 240–241

Allowances—motor vehicle

242–243

Allowances—on-call

224–228

Allowances—overtime
see Overtime
Allowances—travel

236–239

Allowances—variation to

235

Allowances—workplace responsibility

231–234

Anniversary date

16, 141

Annual leave—
see Leave—annual
Approved assessor

F.2

Assessment instrument

F.2

Attendance

90, 93–98, 105–106, 111, 212

Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC)

16

Australian Competition and Consumer Commission Enterprise
Agreement 2016–2019

2, 16

Australian Public Service Classification Rules 2000

34

Australian Public Service Enterprise Award 2015

35

Breaks from work

101–102

Broadband—advancement

41–43

Broadband—definition

16

Broadband—Indigenous Australian Government Development
Program (IAGDP)

31-32, D.1

Broadband—general

16, 22, A.1

Enterprise Agreement— Index

56

Broadband—graduate

22-23, 29-30, B.1

Broadband—internal lawyer

24-26, C.1

Business hours

93

Carer’s leave

139, 151, 152

Chairperson

16

Christmas shutdown

193–196

Classification structure

21–23, A.1

Classification structure—rates of pay

A.1

Consultation

256–260

Consultation on major change

261–270

Consultation on major change—roster or hours of work

271–276

Coverage

3–4

Death of employee

55

Defence Reservists leave

177–181

Definitions

16

Delegation

6

Disability Support Pension

F.2

Discrimination free workplace

285–287

Dispute settlement procedures

277–284

Employee assistance program (EAP)

250–251

Employee consultation

256–260

Employee Council

8, 256–260

Employee—definition

16

Employee representative

265–266, 272–273, 278, G.29

Engagement

17-20, 27, 57, 141-142, 199200

Excess employees

288, G.1

Excess employees—application

G.3–G.4

Excess employees—career transition assistance

G.19

Excess employees—definitions

G.2

Excess employees—expression of interest process

G.5–G.6

Excess employees—financial information

G.16–G.18

Excess employees—process

G.7–G.15

Excess employees—redeployment

G.23

Enterprise Agreement— Index

57

Excess employees—severance pay

G.20–G.22

Excess employees—termination during retention period

G.29–G.32

Excess employees—termination at end of retention period

G.33–G.37

Executive level employees—flexible hours

111–114

Executive level employees—overtime

214

Executive level employees—time off

111–114

Fair Work Commission (FWC)

5, 16, 280–284

Fair Work Act 2009

3, 92, 289

Family member

16, 139

Fire Warden

231

First Aid Officer

231

Flexible hours

16, 90, 96

Flexible hours—executive level employees

111–114

Flexible remuneration packaging

50–51

Flexible working arrangements

90–92

Flexible working arrangements—access

90-92, 97, 122

Flextime Scheme

90, 104–110

Foster care

160–162

Freedom of association

254–255

Graduate APS

27–30, C.1

Grievances—
see Dispute Settlement Procedures
Health and safety representative

231

Healthy lifestyle reimbursement

229–230

Higher work value—temporary performance at

215–223

Home-based work

90

Hours of work

93–100

Hours of work—breaks

101–102

Hours of work—recording

100

Hours of work—unreasonable additional hours

103

Indigenous Australian Government Development Program (IAGDP)

31–32, D.1

Individual assessment

16

Individual flexibility arrangement (IFA)

11–15

Industrial association

16

Enterprise Agreement— Index

58

Internal selection

16

Job-share arrangements

90, 216

Junior rates of pay

38, E.1

Lawyer, internal

16, 24–26, B.1

Leave—adoption

160–161, 171–172

Leave—annual

88

Leave—annual, accrual

124–125

Leave—annual, approval

126–127

Leave—annual, cash out

128—130

Leave—annual, excess

133–136

Leave—annual, half-pay

131–132

Leave—carer’s leave

139, 151, 152

Leave—compassionate

139, 152

Leave—Defence Reservists

177–181

Leave—foster carer’s

160–162

Leave—long service

154–156

Leave—maternity leave

157–159, 164–166

Leave—other

182–185

Leave—parental leave

122–123, 157–168

Leave—parental leave, return to work

168

Leave—personal

89, 139-153

Leave—portability

197

Leave—purchased

137–138

Leave—sick leave

139, 152

Leave—supporting partner’s

169–176

Leave—unpaid parental

164–167

Leave—without pay

109, 150, 177, 182, 184

Living away from home allowance

244–245

Long Service Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1976

154–156

Loss, damage and indemnity

252–253

Major change—changes to working hours or roster of work

271–276

Major change—consultation on

261–270

Manager

16

Enterprise Agreement— Index

59

Maternity Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1973

157–159

Meal allowance

238, 240–241

Medical examination

139

Merit

16

Merit selection—open

16

Misconduct—serious

289

Motor vehicle allowance

242–243

National Employment Standards

139, 151, 152, 277, G.2, G.20

Non-ongoing employees

36–37

On-call duty

224–228

Operation of Agreement

5

Overtime

203–212

Overtime—double time

210–212

Overtime—executive level employees

214

Parental leave
see Leave—parental leave
Part-time work

90-91, 98, 104, 115–123, 124,
131, 140-142, 196, 204, 241,
G.21

Pay

16

Performance action plan

60

Performance appraisal

62

Performance—individual

63

Performance management framework

59

Performance review

61

Performance—unsatisfactory

64, 72–80, 86

Personal leave
see Leave—personal
Policy—ACCC

7–10

Portability of leave

197–200

Probation

27, 57–58, 67, G.3

Promotion

17–20, 52, 197, 246, 262

Public holidays

186–192

Public Service Act 1999

16

Qualifications

18

Enterprise Agreement— Index

60

Reduction in classification

44, 81–84

Redundancy--involuntary

G.23

Redundancy--voluntary

G.4-6, G.8, G.16, G.18, G.20

Relevant minimum wage

F.2

Relocation assistance

246–248

Representation, right to

254–255

Resignation

52–54

Retention period

G.2, G.22–G.26, G.28–G.33,
G.37

Review of assessment

F.12

Salary

16

Salary increase

39–40

Salary on engagement, promotion or transfer

17–20

Salary packaging—flexible remuneration

50–51

Salary payment—method

45–46

Salary progression

65–71

Senior manager

16

Separation requirements

53

Settlement period

16, 94, 107-109, 204

Severance pay

G.16, G.20–G.22

Sick leave

139, 152

Standard hours of attendance

16, 94–95, 98

Standard working hours

16, 94, 98

Studies assistance scheme

249

Superannuation—employer contribution rate

47–49

Supported Wage System (SWS)

56, F.1, F.2

Supported wage system—assessment of capacity

F.8–F.9

Supported wage system—definitions

F.2

Supported wage system—eligibility criteria

F.3–F.4

Supported wage system—lodgement of assessment agreement

F.10–F.11

Supported wage system—other terms and conditions of
employment

F.13

Supported wage system—rates

F.5–F.7

Supported wage system—review of assessment

F.12

Enterprise Agreement— Index

61

Supported wage system—trial period

F.15–F.19

Supported wage system—wage assessment agreement

F.2

Supported wage system—workplace adjustment

F.14

Taxi vouchers

208

Temporary performance at higher work value

215–223

Temporary transfer

87

Termination of employment

85–86, 289

Time 0ff—executive level employees

111–114

Time off in lieu

90, 213

Training classifications

16, 33–35

Transfer—temporary

87

Transfer to another APS agency

52–54

Transition point

16

Travel allowance—
see Allowances—travel
Unauthorised absence

201–202

Underperformance
see Performance—unsatisfactory
Unreasonable additional hours

103

Unsatisfactory performance
see Performance—unsatisfactory
Working hours
see Hours of work
Workplace Contact Officer

231

Workplace Responsibility Allowance

231–234

Enterprise Agreement— Index

62

Signature page
The persons below sign this agreement in accordance with Regulation 2.06A of the Fair
Work Regulations 2009.

Employer
Signed by the Chairperson, Australian Competition and Consumer Commission.

Signed: ______________________
Name: Rodney Graham Sims
Date: 30 November 2016

Bargaining Representatives

Signed: _____________________
Name: Alexandra Dale
Address: 400 George Street
Brisbane QLD 4000
Date: 30 November 2016

Signed: _____________________
Name: Chelsea Kyburz
Address: 23 Marcus Clarke Street
Canberra ACT 2600
Date: 30 November 2016

Signed: _____________________
Name: Tony Hilton
Address: 233 Adelaide Terrace
Perth WA 6000
Date: 30 November 2016

Signed: _____________________
Name: Damian Bye
Address: 360 Elizabeth Street
Melbourne VIC 3000
Date: 30 November 2016

Signed: _____________________
Name: Mark Basile
Address: 360 Elizabeth Street
Melbourne VIC 3000
Date: 30 November 2016

Signed:_____________________
Name: Tim Massey
Address: 233 Adelaide Terrace
Perth WA 6000
Date: 30 November 2016

Signed: _____________________
Full name: Melissa Donnelly
Position: Deputy Secretary
Agency: Community and Public
Sector Union
Address: Level 5, 191-199 Thomas
St Haymarket 2000

