Table of contents
PART A – DEFINITIONS .......................................................................................... 5
PART B - SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT ............................................................... 7
1. Agreement title
7
2. Coverage
7
3. Duration
7
4. National Employment Standards
7
5. Policies and guidelines
7
6. Individual Flexibility Arrangements
7
7. Delegation
8
PART C - SALARY AND RELATED MATTERS ...................................................... 9
8. Salary rates and increases
9
9. Junior wage rates
9
10. Casual employees
9
11. Supported Salary
9
12. Payment related matters
10
13. Reassignment of duties
10
14. Salary advancement
11
15. Advancement not to occur
12
16. Review of assessment
12
17. Salary payable on engagement, promotion and movement
12
18. Superannuation
13
19. Salary packaging
13
PART D – ALLOWANCES ..................................................................................... 14
20. Allowances
14
21. Travel allowance
14
22. Relocation assistance
15
23. Overtime meal break allowance
15
24. Workplace responsibility allowance
15
PART E – HOURS OF WORK AND WORKING FLEXIBLY ................................... 16
25. Hours of work
16
26. Flextime scheme
17
27. Executive Level Time Off
18
28. Overtime
18
29. Public holidays
19
30. Annual closedown
20
31. Flexible work arrangements
20
32. Part-time work
20
PART F – LEAVE ................................................................................................... 22
33. General conditions
22
34. Portability of leave
22
35. Annual leave
22
36. Personal/carer’s leave
24
37. Miscellaneous leave
26
38. Leave for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander employees
26
39. Unauthorised absences
26
40. War service sick leave
26
41. Compassionate leave
27
42. Purchased leave
27
Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 3 of 43

43. Extended purchased leave
44. Leave for ADF Reserve and continuous full time service
45. Community service leave
46. Long service leave
47. Maternity and parental leave

27
28
28
28
28

PART G – GENERAL CONDITIONS ...................................................................... 31
48. Performance Development Scheme (PDS)
31
49. Managing underperformance
31
50. Professional appointments with mandatory qualifications
31
51. Safe and healthy work environment
31
52. Family care assistance
32
53. Financial assistance for mature age employees
32
54. Termination of employment – right of review
33
PART H – CONSULTATION AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION ................................. 34
55. Consultation on major change
34
56. Dispute Resolution Procedures
35
PART I – REDPLOYMENT, REDUCTION AND RETRENCHMENT ....................... 37
57. Excess employees
37
58. Voluntary retrenchment
38
59. Redundancy benefit
38
60. Involuntary retrenchment
40
Attachment A – Salary table ................................................................................. 42
Attachment B – Recognition of allowances for particular purposes................. 43

Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 4 of 43

PART A – DEFINITIONS
In this Agreement, unless a contrary intention is clear, the following definitions apply:
ACSQHC
Means the Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care.
Agreement
Means the Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care
Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022.
APS
Means the Australian Public Service.
CEO
Means the Chief Executive Officer of ACSQHC. A reference to the CEO
may also mean a reference to a person holding a delegation from the
CEO.
COO
Means the Chief Operating Officer (or equivalent) of ACSQHC and who
has been delegated by the CEO to approve or make decisions under
the Agreement.
Department
Means the Department of Health.
Dependant
Means in relation to an employee:
a) The employee’s partner; or
b) A child or parent of the employee, or of the partner of the
employee, being a child or parent who ordinarily resides with the
employee and who is wholly or substantially dependent upon the
employee.
Employees or
Means an employee engaged by ACSQHC in an irregular or intermittent
employee
(casual), non-ongoing or ongoing capacity under section 22 of the PS
Act.
Family
Means a person who:
a) Is a spouse, de-facto partner, including a former spouse or former
de facto partner;
b) Is a child including an adult child, adopted child, step child, or
foster child;
c) Is a parent, grandparent, grandchild or sibling of the employee, or
the employee’s spouse;
d) The CEO is satisfied has a strong affinity with the employee;
e) Is a member of the employee’s household; or
f) For Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander employees, is a person
related to the employee through traditional kinship
and includes a person of the opposite or same sex to the employee.
Foster child
Means a child for whom the employee has assumed long term
responsibility arising from the placement of the child by a permanent
fostering arrangement:
a) By a person or an organisation with statutory responsibility for the
placement of the child; and
b) Where the child is expected to stay with the employee.
FW Act
Means the Fair Work Act 2009 as amended from time to time.
FWC
Means the Fair Work Commission.
HDA
Means higher duties allowance, the temporary payment of an allowance
where an employee is temporarily assigned duties at a higher
classification than his or her current classification.
Health/Medical
Means a person registered or licensed as a Health/Medical Practitioner
Practitioner
under a law of a state or territory.

Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 5 of 43

Manager
Movement or
Move
NES
PDS
Promotion
PS Act
Representative
Salary
advancement
SES
Spouse

Voluntary
retrenchment

Includes the supervising officer who has line management responsibility
and who has been delegated by the CEO to approve or make decisions
under the Agreement.
Means the temporary or permanent reassignment of duties of an
employee either within ACSQHC or from/to another APS agency.
Means National Employment Standards of the FW Act.
Means ACSQHC's Performance Development Scheme.
Means the ongoing assignment of duties at a higher classification
(excluding HDA) than the employee’s current classification, as defined in
the Australian Public Service Commissioner’s Directions 2016.
Means the Public Service Act 1999, as amended from time to time.
Means a person chosen by an employee, or a group of employees, to
represent them.
Means movement through pay points within a salary range for a
classification subject to meeting any requirements under the PDS.
These increases are salary for the purposes of superannuation.
Means Senior Executive Service.
Means in relation to an employee:
a) The husband or wife of the employee;
b) The former husband or wife of the employee;
c) A person who is in a recognised de facto relationship with the
employee;
d) The former de facto of the employee; or
e) The partner of the employee.
Means voluntary termination of an excess employee’s APS employment,
also known as voluntary retirement or voluntary redundancy.

Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 6 of 43

PART B - SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT
1.

AGREEMENT TITLE

1.1

This Agreement will be known as the ‘Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in
Health Care Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022’.

2.

COVERAGE

2.1

The Agreement is made between the CEO of ACSQHC, on behalf of the
Commonwealth, and all non-SES ACSQHC employees.

3.

DURATION

3.1

This Agreement will commence on the date following the nominal expiry date of the
current agreement; or seven days following the day on which the Fair Work
Commission (FWC) approves the Agreement, whichever is the later.

3.2

The Agreement will nominally expire three years after the date of commencement.

4.

NATIONAL EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS

4.1

This Agreement will be read and interpreted in conjunction with the National
Employment Standards (NES). Where there is an inconsistency between this
Agreement and the NES, and the NES provides a greater benefit, the NES provision
will apply to the extent of the inconsistency.

5.

POLICIES AND GUIDELINES

5.1

Any policies or guidelines referred to in the Agreement are not incorporated into, and
do not form part of, the Agreement. The express terms of this Agreement prevail to the
extent of any inconsistency with policies and guidelines.

5.2

Policies and guidelines will be available to all employees and will be drafted and
updated following reasonable consultation, where appropriate. Finalised policies will be
approved by either the CEO or the Board.

6.

INDIVIDUAL FLEXIBILITY ARRANGEMENTS

6.1

The CEO and an employee covered by the Agreement may agree to make an
Individual Flexibility Arrangement (IFA) to vary the effect of terms of the Agreement if:
(a) The IFA deals with one or more of the following matters:
i. Arrangements about when work is performed;
ii. Overtime rates;
iii. Penalty rates;
iv. Allowances;
v. Remuneration;
vi. Leave; and/or
vii. Cashing out of annual leave; and
(b) The IFA meets the genuine needs of the CEO and employee in relation to one
or more of the matters in paragraph (a); and
(c) The IFA is genuinely agreed to by the CEO and employee.

6.2

The CEO must ensure that the terms of the IFA:
(a) Are about permitted matters under section 172 of the FW Act; and
Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 7 of 43

(b)
(c)

Are not unlawful terms under section 194 of the FW Act; and
Result in the employee being better off overall than the employee would be if no
arrangement was made.

6.3

The CEO must ensure that the IFA:
(a) Is in writing; and
(b) Includes the name of the employer and employee; and
(c) Is signed by the CEO and employee and if the employee is under 18 years of
age, signed by a parent or guardian of the employee; and
(d) Includes details of:
i. The terms of the Agreement that will be varied by the arrangement; and
ii. How the IFA will vary the effect of the terms; and
iii. How the employee will be better off overall in relation to the terms and
conditions of his or her employment as a result of the IFA; and
(e) States the day on which the IFA commences and, where applicable, when the
arrangement ceases.

6.4

The CEO must give the employee a copy of the IFA within 14 days after it is agreed to.

6.5

The CEO or employee may terminate the IFA:
(a) By giving no more than 28 days written notice to the other party to the IFA; or
(b) If the CEO and employee agree in writing at any time.

7.

DELEGATION

7.1

The CEO may (in writing) delegate to, or authorise any person, to perform any or all of
their powers and functions under the Agreement, including this power of delegation,
and may do so subject to conditions.

Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 8 of 43

PART C - SALARY AND RELATED MATTERS
8.

SALARY RATES AND INCREASES

8.1

Salary rates are specified in Attachment A. Salary rates will increase by:
(a) 2% upon commencement of the Agreement;
(b) 2% one year after commencement of the Agreement;
(c) 2% two years after commencement of the Agreement.

9.

JUNIOR WAGE RATES

9.1

Employees who are younger than 21 years of age and who are employed as an APS 1
will be paid the following percentages of the minimum APS 1 salary range:
(a) Under 18 years
60%
(b) At 18 years
70%
(c) At 19 years
81%
(d) At 20 years
91%

10.

CASUAL EMPLOYEES

10.1

A non-ongoing employee engaged for irregular or intermittent duties will be paid for the
actual hours worked, based on the appropriate salary rate as indicated at Attachment A
plus a 20% loading in lieu of all paid leave (excluding long service leave) and public
holidays on which they do not work.

11.

SUPPORTED SALARY

Eligibility criteria
11.1

Employees covered by clause 11 will be those who are unable to perform the range of
duties to the competence level required within the class for which the employee is
engaged because of the effects of a disability on their productive capacity and who
meet the impairment criteria for receipt of a disability support pension.

11.2

This part does not apply to any existing employee who has a claim against the
ACSQHC which is subject to the provisions of workers’ compensation legislation or any
provision of this Agreement relating to the rehabilitation of employees who are injured
in the course of employment.

Supported wage rates
(a) Employees to whom clause 11 applies shall be paid the applicable percentage
of the relevant minimum wage according to the following schedule:
Assessed capacity

% of prescribed rate

10%

10%

20%

20%

30%

30%

40%

40%

50%

50%

Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 9 of 43

Assessed capacity

% of prescribed rate

60%

60%

70%

70%

80%

80%

90%

90%

11.3

Provided that the minimum amount payable must be not less than $86 per week.

11.4

Where an employee’s assessed capacity is 10%; they must receive a high degree of
assistance and support.

Other terms and conditions of employment
11.5

Where an assessment has been made, the applicable percentage will apply to the
relevant wage rate only. Employees covered by clause 11 will be entitled to the same
terms and conditions of employment as all other employees covered by this Agreement
paid on a pro-rata basis.

Trial period
11.6

In order for an adequate assessment of the employee’s capacity to be made, an
employer may employ a person under clause 11 for a trial period not exceeding 12
weeks, except that in some cases additional work adjustment time (not exceeding four
weeks) may be needed.

11.7

During that trial period the assessment of capacity will be undertaken and the
percentage of the relevant salary for a continuing employment relationship will be
determined.

11.8

The minimum amount payable to the employee during the trial period must be no less
than $86 per week.

11.9

Work trials should include induction or training as appropriate to the job being trialled.

11.10 Where the employer and employee wish to establish a continuing employment
relationship following the completion of the trial period, a further contract of
employment will be entered into based on the outcome of assessment.

12.

PAYMENT RELATED MATTERS

12.1

Employees will be paid fortnightly in arrears, based on the following formula:
Fortnightly pay = annual salary X 12
313

12.2

Payment will be made by electronic funds transfer into a financial institution of the
employee’s choice.

13.

REASSIGNMENT OF DUTIES

Salary on reduction
13.1

Where an employee is temporarily reassigned duties at a lower work classification
level, the CEO may determine in writing, in consultation with the employee, that the
employee shall be paid a rate of salary applicable to the lower classification level. Such
determination will specify the period for which the lower salary will apply.

13.2

This clause does not apply to decisions made by the CEO in relation to breaches of the
Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 10 of 43

Code of Conduct or underperformance.
Period of HDA attracting payment
13.3

Where an employee is performing higher duties for a continuous period of more than
five working days, HDA is payable from the first day of the period of acting.

Level of payment
13.4

Where an employee is to be paid HDA, the employee will be paid at the pay point
nominated by their Manager, following discussion with the relevant employee, and
recognising that there is an opportunity for the employee to be paid above the minimum
pay point within the salary range of the higher position.

13.5

The pay point attained through salary advancement in previous periods of HDA at that
classification level will be at least maintained.

Payment for partial performance
13.6

Where the full duties of the position are not being undertaken the CEO may determine
a payment at a point in a classification below that of the higher duties position.

HDA and SES positions
13.7

Remuneration for temporary assignment of duties at a SES level will be consistent with
ACSQHC SES terms and conditions.

Public holidays or leave
13.8

An employee on HDA who is granted paid leave or who observes a public holiday will
continue to receive HDA during the employee’s absence. HDA will not be paid beyond
the date on which the employee would have ceased the period of acting had he or she
not been absent. Where the period of leave is paid at less than full pay, payment of
HDA will be made on a pro-rata basis.

14.

SALARY ADVANCEMENT

Within classifications
14.1

Subject to clause 15, salary advancement within all classification levels will occur from
the beginning of the first full pay period commencing on or after 1 August each year
subject to:
(a) Completion of the requirements of the PDS; and
(b) Performance of duties at the employee’s substantive level or above within
ACSQHC, for an aggregate of three months or more within the PDS cycle ended
30 June; and
(c) Satisfactory performance or better at the end of the PDS cycle; or
(d) The advancement provisions applying to specific groups of employees as
outlined in this section.

Non-ongoing employees
14.2

Non-ongoing employees, other than casual employees, will be eligible for salary
advancement where they have been engaged at the same classification to perform the
same duties continuously for six months during the PDS cycle. Non-ongoing
employees are subject to the same qualifying ratings under the PDS as ongoing
employees.

14.3

This clause does not affect the CEO’s discretion to determine salary on the
Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 11 of 43

commencement of each period of engagement.
Junior employees
14.4

Employees who are under 21 years of age employed at the APS 1 level will be
advanced to the next salary point on the employee’s birthday, except where they are
paid the adult salary rate following automatic advancement upon successful completion
of a course of study or training.

Higher duties advancement
14.5

Where an employee has been temporarily reassigned duties at a higher classification
for a period aggregating three months or longer during the PDS cycle, then the
employee will be eligible for salary advancement for the purposes of future or
continuing HDA in accordance with clause 14.1. Where HDA periods have been at
different levels, progression will occur to the HDA level closest to the employee’s
substantive level, unless the person has acted for six months or more at a higher
classification level.

14.6

Employees on short term HDA remain eligible for advancement within the employee’s
substantive classification level, subject to meeting the requirements of the PDS.

15.

ADVANCEMENT NOT TO OCCUR

15.1

Employees who either:
(a) Do not complete and meet the requirements of the PDS; or
(b) Are ongoing and have not performed duties at the employee’s substantive
classification level or a higher position in ACSQHC for at least three months of
the PDS cycle; or
(c) Are non-ongoing and have not met the requirements of clause 14.2; or
(d) Are not eligible because of relevant administrative actions, including a sanction
under the PS Act
will not move to the next pay point within that classification salary range. Those
employees will then not be able to progress to another pay point within the
classification salary range until the salary review in the next year.

15.2

The provisions of this clause do not apply to employees subject to age rate salary
advancement.

16.

REVIEW OF ASSESSMENT

16.1

Where an employee has sought review of the employee’s assessment under the PDS
and the review is subsequently upheld, salary advancement will occur from the
appropriate August advancement date.

17.

SALARY PAYABLE ON ENGAGEMENT, PROMOTION AND MOVEMENT

17.1

Unless otherwise determined by the CEO (having regard to experience, qualifications
and skills) where a person is:
(a) Promoted or engaged, salary will be payable at the minimum pay point of the
relevant salary range;
(b) Transferred at level on an ongoing or temporary movement basis from another
APS agency and
i. The employee’s salary is above the top pay point of the relevant range
as stated at Attachment A, the employee will be paid at the top pay
point; or
Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 12 of 43

ii.

18.

The employee’s salary is below the top pay point of the relevant range
as stated at Attachment A, but not aligned with a pay point in the range,
the employee’s salary will be paid at the next highest pay point in that
range.

SUPERANNUATION

Employer superannuation contributions
18.1

An employee will receive compulsory employer superannuation contributions as
required by the applicable legislation and fund requirements. The salary for
superannuation purposes for PSSap members will be calculated based on the
employee’s ordinary time earnings (OTE).

Superannuation choice
18.2

Where an employee has chosen an accumulation superannuation fund, other than the
PSS Accumulation Plan (PSSap), the employer contribution will be 15.4% of the
ordinary time earnings (OTE). This will not be reduced by any other contributions made
through salary sacrifice arrangements or during a period of paid parental leave
(however described). This clause does not apply where a superannuation fund cannot
accept employer superannuation contributions (e.g. unable to accept contributions for
people aged over 75).

18.3

For the purposes of this clause OTE is the salary paid for an employee’s regular hours
of work, not including overtime. It includes paid leave up to the maximum contributions
base for the quarter. For the purpose of the Agreement where salary sacrifice
arrangements are in place or the employee is on paid maternity, adoption or foster
leave, employer contributions will be paid as if those arrangements had not been
entered into.

18.4

Employer superannuation contributions will not be paid during periods of unpaid leave
that do not count as service, unless otherwise required under legislation.

18.5

The CEO may choose to limit superannuation choice to complying superannuation
funds that allow employee and/or employer contributions to be paid through fortnightly
electronic funds transfer.

Treatment of allowances
18.6

A table indicating the treatment of allowances for superannuation purposes is at
Attachment B.

19.

SALARY PACKAGING

19.1

ACSQHC will provide access to salary packaging of superannuation and other matters
as determined by the CEO.

19.2

If the CEO approves for establishment of other salary packaging options for
employees, the employee may access this benefit with CEO approval.

19.3

Where an employee takes up the option of salary packaging, the employee's salary for
purposes of superannuation, redundancy and termination payments, and any other
purposes, will be determined as if the salary packaging arrangement had not occurred.

19.4

Any fringe benefits tax incurred by individual employees as a result of salary packaging
arrangements will be met by the individual employee on a salary sacrifice basis.

Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 13 of 43

PART D – ALLOWANCES
20.

ALLOWANCES

Recognition of allowances
20.1

Information on the recognition (for particular purposes) of allowances provided for in
the Agreement is at Attachment B.

21.

TRAVEL ALLOWANCE

21.1

Travel related allowances will be set in line with the department’s portfolio rates.

21.2

ACSQHC will meet reasonable costs for employees on official overnight travel as
determined by the CEO.

21.3

The CEO will authorise an additional payment in circumstances where an employee
has incurred reasonable costs in excess of the allowance as determined by the CEO
and subject to the presentation of receipts. Where possible, prior approval should be
obtained by the employee before incurring the expense.

Overpayment of travel allowance
21.4

Where a travel allowance overpayment occurs, the employee will repay the amount of
the overpaid allowance to ACSQHC to reflect the travel actually undertaken.

Part-day travel
21.5

An employee who is required to be absent from the employee’s usual place of work on
official business for a period of not less than 10 hours, but is not absent overnight, will
be paid an allowance of $49.44 for each absence.

Illness while travelling
21.6

Where an employee falls ill or is injured while travelling on official business and
subsequently takes leave, the CEO will approve payment of return journey costs to the
employee.

Recognition of travel time
21.7

Where an APS 1–6 employee is required to undertake official travel, the time spent
travelling within the bandwidth, excluding the usual time taken for the employee to
travel to and from the employee’s regular place of work, will be recorded as work hours.

21.8

Travel outside the bandwidth undertaken by APS 1–6 employees will be claimed as
travel time in lieu at single time rates.

Motor vehicle allowance
21.9

Motor vehicle allowance (MVA) is payable where the CEO approves an employee to
use a private or personally hired vehicle for official purposes.

21.10 Where an employee is approved to use a private vehicle instead of the most efficient
means of travel as determined by the CEO, the amount of MVA paid to the employee
will not exceed the cost of the most efficient means of travel.

Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 14 of 43

22.

RELOCATION ASSISTANCE

Access for existing employees
22.1

Where the ACSQHC initiates a permanent relocation (including transfer or promotion)
of an employee, or the relocation is in the interest of the ACSQHC, the CEO may
reimburse reasonable relocation costs.

Requested move
22.2

Relocation or temporary transfer at the request of the employee will only attract
relocation assistance at the discretion of the CEO.

Access for new employees
22.3

Upon an employee’s engagement, relocation assistance for reasonable costs may be
granted by the Manager.

23.

OVERTIME MEAL BREAK ALLOWANCE

23.1

Where an employee is required to work overtime for a continuous period of at least one
hour outside the bandwidth which extends over a meal period, they will be paid a meal
allowance of $26.82. For the purposes of this clause a meal period is:
Monday to Friday:

6.30 am
7.00 pm

–
–

7.00 am
7.30 pm

Saturday, Sunday and public
holidays:

6.30 am
12.30 pm
7.00 pm

–
–
–

7.00 am
1.30 pm
7.30 pm

23.2

Where overtime is worked for long periods and does not coincide with designated meal
periods, the Manager has the discretion to authorise payment of a meal allowance.

24.

WORKPLACE RESPONSIBILITY ALLOWANCE

24.1

First aid officers will be paid a workplace responsibility allowance (WRA) at the rate of
$15.73 per week.

24.2

Fire wardens will be paid a WRA at the rate of $10.67 per week.

24.3

Workplace Harassment Contact officers will be paid a WRA at the rate of $10.67 per
week.

24.4

Health and Safety representatives will be paid a WRA at the rate of $10.67 per week.

Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 15 of 43

PART E – HOURS OF WORK AND WORKING FLEXIBLY
25.

HOURS OF WORK

25.1

All employees have access to flexible working hours.

25.2

Definitions
(a) Ordinary hours: ordinary hours of work for full-time employees are 150 hours,
or the agreed hours for part-time employees, over the settlement period. This
equates to an average of 7 hours and 30 minutes per day.
(b) Standard day: means ordinary hours of 7 hours and 30 minutes per day for fulltime employees, from 8:30am to 12:30pm and 1:30pm to 5:00pm Monday to
Friday, or the agreed pattern of hours for part-time employees. Standard day is
used for a range of purposes including
i. Determining an employee’s hourly rate of salary;
ii. Determining overtime entitlements;
iii. Accrual and deduction of leave, including deduction of part-day
absences; and
iv. Calculating hours over the flextime settlement period.
(c) Bandwidth: the bandwidth of hours in which an employee will work their
ordinary hours is 7.00 am to 7.00 pm, Monday to Friday.
(d) Maximum hours per day: an employee shall not normally be required to work
more than 10 hours ordinary time in any one day. Where this does occur, the
overtime and time in lieu provisions at clause 28 and/or meal allowance
provisions at clause 23 may apply.
(e) Meal break: an employee must not work more than five consecutive hours
without a break of at least 30 minutes.
(f)
Minimum break between days: an employee will not normally be required to
commence work on any day without having at least 10 hours minimum break
from the previous day’s work, without specific approval from their Manager.
Where this does occur, the overtime and time in lieu provisions at clause 28
and/or meal allowance provisions at clause 23 may apply.
(g) Settlement period: means a four-week period commencing on payday
Thursdays.
(h) Flextime: means flexible hours for APS 1–6 employees in accordance with the
formal flextime scheme set out in clause 26.
(i)
Executive level (EL) time off: means variations in attendance times and short
term absences, including full days, in accordance with clause 27.
(j)
Overtime: means work performed at the direction of an employee’s manager
and on the approval of the COO that constitutes overtime in accordance with
clause 28.
(k) Time in lieu (TIL): is a form of recompense for overtime duty as an alternative
to overtime payment, subject to the provisions of clause 28.

Work outside bandwidth
25.3

Where an employee requests to work their ordinary hours outside the bandwidth e.g.
on Saturday or Sunday, the employee may do so, subject to operational requirements,
with the agreement of their Manager. Any hours worked on this basis will be considered
ordinary hours and will not attract overtime.

Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 16 of 43

Recording attendance
25.4

All employees are required to record their working hours.

26.

FLEXTIME SCHEME

26.1

APS 1–6 employees, including part-time employees, are eligible to accumulate flextime
for duty performed in excess of their ordinary hours of work (over the settlement
period), but which does not attract overtime.

26.2

An employee may choose to vary their pattern of attendance from time to time in order
to meet personal needs and subject to operational requirements. As part of this
process, employees may take flextime as a part or whole day absence, subject to
approval by their Manager.

Insufficient work and flextime
26.3

A Manager may require an employee not to work hours in addition to ordinary hours
and to not accumulate flextime where there is insufficient work.

Excess flex credits
26.4

At the end of a settlement period, where the employee’s flex credit exceeds 20 hours
credit, the employee in consultation with their Manager will discuss and mutually agree
a plan to reduce flex credits.

Cash out of credits exceeding one week
26.5

At the end of a settlement period, flex credits exceeding one week (37.5 hours or the
part-time equivalent) may be cashed out at ordinary time rates where, due to
organisational requirements, the employee’s Manager determines that the employee
will be unable to use those credits in the settlement period.

Flex debit balance
26.6

Employees may carry over a maximum of 10 hours flex debit accumulated in any
settlement period into the next settlement period.

26.7

In circumstances where the maximum debit is exceeded at the end of a settlement
period, the employee will reduce the debit to 10 hours or less over the next settlement
period.

Deduction of flex debit from salary
26.8

Should this not occur, the amount by which the maximum is exceeded shall be treated
as leave without pay and an appropriate deduction made from the employee’s salary.

Flex balances at cessation
26.9

Where flex credits are outstanding at the cessation of employment with ACSQHC the
flex credit will be paid to the employee at ordinary time rates. Where flex debits are
outstanding at the cessation these will be recovered as part of the termination payment.

Reversion to standard day
26.10 Where an employee has failed to comply with the provisions of flextime, their Manager
may remove the employee from flextime for a specified period and the employee will
revert to working the standard day. Access to flexible working arrangements including
flextime will be restored where the Manager is satisfied that the employee will maintain
satisfactory attendance patterns.
Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 17 of 43

27.

EXECUTIVE LEVEL TIME OFF

27.1

EL employees do not have access to flextime. EL remuneration recognises that EL
employees may have to work reasonable additional hours.

27.2

Where operational needs require an EL employee to work additional hours in excess of
their ordinary hours for a sustained period, the employee and their Manager may agree
on arrangements for time off to recognise the additional effort.

27.3

EL time off should be taken as soon as practical, subject to operational requirements.

27.4

EL time off will not be on an hour for hour basis.

27.5

EL employees are not eligible for overtime payments except in exceptional
circumstances.

Time off for official travel for EL employees
27.6

EL employees may receive EL time off where it is agreed in advance, for the period
where the time spent travelling on official domestic travel exceeds the standard day,
excluding the usual time taken for the employee to travel to and from their regular place
of work.

28.

OVERTIME

APS 1–6
28.1

APS 1–6 employees are eligible for an overtime payment where they are required by
their Manager on the approval of the COO to:
(a) Perform work outside the bandwidth (inclusive of weekends and public
holidays); or
(b) Work in excess of 10 hours on any one day (Monday to Friday inclusive);
whichever occurs first.

Part-time employees
28.2

Part-time APS 1–6 employees are eligible for overtime for work performed at the
direction of the employee’s Manager on approval of the COO which is:
(a) Not continuous with the employee’s agreed or specified hours of work; and/or
(b) Beyond the total ordinary hours of work over the settlement period specified in
the employee’s part-time work agreement.

Time in lieu
28.3

If an employee chooses, the employee’s Manager may allow the employee to take time
in lieu (TIL) as a form of recompense for overtime duty as an alternative to overtime
payment, subject to the provisions of this clause.

Calculation
28.4

Where overtime is worked, the rate of payment (or TIL, if the employee elects) is
calculated at the following rates:
(a) Monday to Saturday: time and one half;
(b) Sunday: double time.

Hourly divisor
28.5

Calculations for an employee’s overtime entitlement will use a divisor of 37.5 hours to
determine the employee’s hourly rate.
Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 18 of 43

Public holidays
28.6

An employee who is directed to work overtime on a public holiday which falls on a
weekday, will be paid overtime at double-time for duty outside of a standard day (for full
time employees) or the agreed pattern of hours (for part-time employees). For duty
within a standard day (or agreed pattern of hours for part-time employees), overtime
will be paid at single-time as employees are already being paid for the public holiday.

28.7

Employees required to perform overtime during the annual closedown will be
recompensed with overtime calculated at time and a half.

Non-continuous overtime and multiple occurrences of overtime
28.8

Where there is a break, other than a meal break, between the periods of ordinary duty
and overtime performed, the minimum overtime payment is four hours at the relevant
rate. Where the period of overtime performed is greater than four hours, payment will
be made for the total overtime performed at the relevant rate.

28.9

Where multiple overtime occurrences are required, the minimum overtime payment
provision in clause 28.8 will not operate to increase an employee’s overtime payment
beyond that which they would have received had they remained on duty from the
commencing time of duty on the first overtime occurrence, to the ceasing time of the
final overtime occurrence.

29.

PUBLIC HOLIDAYS

29.1

Employees are entitled to the following public holidays:
(a) New Year's Day (1 January)
(b) Australia Day (26 January)
(c) Good Friday
(d) Easter Monday
(e) Anzac Day (25 April)
(f)
The Queen's birthday holiday (on the day on which it is celebrated in a state or
territory or a region of a state or territory)
(g) Christmas Day (25 December)
(h) Boxing Day (26 December)
(i)
Any other day, or part-day, declared or prescribed by or under a law of a State
or Territory to be observed generally within the State or Territory, or a region of
the state or territory, as a public holiday, other than a day or part-day, or a kind
of day or part-day, that is excluded by the Fair Work Regulations 2009 from
counting as a public holiday.

29.2

If under a state or territory law, a day or part-day is substituted for one of the public
holidays listed in clause 29.1, then the substituted day or part-day is the public holiday.

29.3

The CEO and an employee may agree on the substitution of a day or part-day that
would otherwise be a public holiday, having regard to operational requirements.

29.4

An employee who is absent on a day or part-day that is a public holiday in the place
where the employee is based for work purposes, is entitled to be paid for the part or full
day absence as if that day or part-day was not a public holiday, except where that
person would not normally have worked on that day.

29.5

Where a public holiday falls during a period when an employee is absent on leave
(other than annual or paid personal/carer’s leave) there is no entitlement to receive
payment as a public holiday. Payment for that day would be in accordance with the
entitlement for that form of leave (e.g. if on long service leave on half pay, payment is
Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 19 of 43

on half pay).

30.

ANNUAL CLOSEDOWN

30.1

ACSQHC will be closed for normal business and employees will not be required to
perform normal duty on the working days between Christmas Day and New Year’s Day.
Employees will be paid for closedown as if the days were public holidays.

30.2

Where an employee is absent on leave, payment for the Christmas closedown
provision will be in accordance with the entitlement for that form of leave, (e.g. if on
long service leave half pay, payment is at half pay).

30.3

There will be no deduction from annual or personal/carer’s leave credits for the annual
closedown days.

Early stand down
30.4

The ACSQHC will be closed for normal business and employees will not be required to
perform normal duty from 3.00 pm on the working day prior to Christmas and from 3.00
pm on the working day prior to Good Friday. Eligible employees will be paid for early
stand down. Payment eligibility will be treated in the same manner as a normal working
day.

Part-time employees
30.5

Part-time employees normally not working on the days of the week on which annual
closedown occur will not be entitled to alternative time off duty.

31.

FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS

31.1

Employees have the right to request flexible working arrangements in accordance with
the NES. Examples of flexible working arrangements include part-time work and
working from home.

31.2

Unless otherwise determined by the CEO, an approved flexible work arrangement will
be subject to an annual review.

32.

PART-TIME WORK

Hours of work
32.1

A part-time employee is one who has a part-time agreement with their Manager and
who:
(a) Regularly works less than full-time ordinary hours; and
(b) Has reasonably predictable hours of work.

32.2

Remuneration and conditions (except long service leave which is provided and
administered in accordance with the Long Service Leave (Commonwealth Employees)
Act 1976 (LSL Act)) for part-time employees will be calculated on a pro-rata basis
based on the proportion of hours worked in comparison to full time hours. Expense
related allowances are not calculated on a pro-rata basis and will be paid at the same
amount as a full-time employee.

32.3

A part-time agreement must not include daily hours of work greater than eight hours.

Variation in hours
32.4

A part-time employee may not vary their part-time agreement hours without agreement
from their Manager.
Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 20 of 43

32.5

Details of the operation of the flextime provisions for part-time employees are provided
at clause 26.

Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 21 of 43

PART F – LEAVE
33.

GENERAL CONDITIONS

33.1

All accrued leave entitlements will be expressed and deducted in hours and minutes.

Donating blood
33.2

ACSQHC recognises the importance of, and supports, employees in donating blood.
Employees donating blood during working hours are not required to complete a leave
application or to utilise flextime.

Recall to duty
33.3

ACSQHC will not unreasonably cancel approved leave or unreasonably recall
employees to duty while on leave. If an employee is recalled, the CEO will approve
reimbursement toward travel expenses, incidental expenses or family care costs not
otherwise recoverable under insurance or from another source, provided that the
employee took reasonable precautions to avoid such expenses.

Non-approval of leave
33.4

Where a Manager refuses a formal application for leave, the Manager will advise the
employee of the reason(s) for the decision. The Manager, the employee and, where the
employee requests, a support person may meet to consider alternative arrangements if
required.

34.

PORTABILITY OF LEAVE

34.1

Where an ongoing APS employee moves (including on promotion or for an agreed
period) from another agency, the employee’s unused accrued annual leave and
personal/carer’s leave (however described) will be transferred, provided there is no
break in continuity of service.

34.2

Where an employee is engaged as either an ongoing or non-ongoing APS employee
immediately following a period of ongoing employment under the Parliamentary Service
Act 1999 or the ACT Government Service, the employee’s unused accrued annual
leave and personal/carer’s leave (however described) will be recognised unless the
employee received payment in lieu of those entitlements on termination of employment.

Former non-ongoing employees
34.3

Where a person is engaged as an ongoing employee, and immediately prior to the
engagement the person was employed as a non-ongoing APS employee, the CEO, at
the employee’s request, may recognise any unused accrued annual leave and
personal/carer’s leave (however described), provided there is no break in continuity of
service. Any recognised annual leave excludes any accrued leave paid out on
separation.

35.

ANNUAL LEAVE

Entitlement
35.1

Full-time employees are entitled to the equivalent of four weeks (150 hours), for each
full year of service. Part-time employees accrue annual leave on a pro-rata basis for
ordinary hours worked. Annual leave will accrue daily, and be credited at the
completion of each calendar month.
Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 22 of 43

Effect of leave without pay
35.2

Where ‘leave without pay not to count as service’ has been granted in the accrual
period, annual leave will be adjusted on the day of accrual as follows:
(a) Where aggregated absences for periods totalling 30 calendar days or less, the
annual leave accrual is not affected;
(b) Where aggregated full day absences total more than 30 calendar days, the total
period of leave without pay is deducted from the number of calendar days to
count as service;
(c) Where leave without pay covers an entire calendar year, no annual leave credit
accrues for that year.

Direction to take annual leave
35.3

The CEO may direct an employee who has more than two years of accrued annual
leave credit to take annual leave. The employee must take annual leave if directed to
do so.

35.4

The employee may be directed to be on leave (and to be absent from the workplace)
for whichever is lesser of:
(a) 10 consecutive working days; or
(b) A period of time equal to 25% of accrued annual leave credits at the time of the
direction.

Deferring annual leave
35.5

An employee may apply to the CEO to defer taking the leave defined in clause 35.3 for
up to one year from an agreed date.

35.6

An employee with an accrued annual leave credit greater than two years on:
(a) Commencing duty in ACSQHC; or
(b) Returning to work following a long term absence due to illness or injury; or
(c) Resuming duty following a graduated return to work
will have a period of 12 months to take sufficient leave to reduce the employee’s
credit down to the equivalent of two years or less.

35.7

Two years of annual leave credit is equivalent to 40 days or the part-time pro-rated
equivalent.

Annual leave at half pay
35.8

Employees may take annual leave at half pay. The minimum absence of leave on half
pay is two working days, with further absences in multiples of two days. Where annual
leave is taken at half pay, credits will be deducted from the employee’s annual leave
balance on the basis that two days of annual leave at half pay is equivalent to one day
of annual leave at full pay.

Public holidays during leave
35.9

Where a public holiday occurs in a period of annual leave, the public holiday will not be
deducted from the employee’s annual leave credits.

Payment of annual leave on termination
35.10 Any unused accrued annual leave will be paid to the employee when the employee’s
APS employment is terminated.
Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 23 of 43

35.11 Payment will be calculated using the employee’s final rate of salary, including
allowances that would have been included in the employee's pay during a period of
annual leave.
Special availability
35.12 Without limiting the general entitlement under clause 35.1, an employee may access
annual leave where they have a long term illness and have exhausted other paid leave
entitlements.

36.

PERSONAL/CARER’S LEAVE

36.1

On engagement, an ongoing employee will be credited with personal/carer’s leave of
18 days (135 hours) or the part-time equivalent. A further 18 days or the part-time
equivalent will accrue on completion of each 12 month period of service thereafter.

Accrual and credits – non-ongoing employees
36.2

Full-time non-ongoing employees, other than casual employees, are entitled to 18 days
personal/carer’s leave per year of service or the part-time equivalent, accruing daily.

Deferral of accrual
36.3

Where ‘leave without pay not to count as service’ has been granted in the accrual year,
personal/carer’s leave accrual will be deferred as follows:
(a) Where aggregated full day absences total 30 calendar days or less, the accrual
is not affected;
(b) Where aggregated full day absences total more than 30 calendar days, the
accrual date will be deferred by one calendar month for each 30 calendar day
period.

Advice to Manager
36.4

An employee, where practicable, must personally advise the employee’s Manager of
the employee’s absence or the employee’s intention to be absent as soon as possible.
Where the employee’s Manager is not contactable, advising another employee in the
employee’s work team will suffice.

Use of personal/carer’s leave
36.5

Personal/carer’s leave will be granted to an employee by their Manager, subject to
available credits for the following reasons:
(a) Where the employee is not fit for work because of a personal illness or injury
affecting the employee;
(b) To provide care or support to a member of the employee’s family or the
employee’s household, who requires care or support because of a personal
illness or personal injury, affecting the member;
(c) Where a member of the employee’s immediate family, or the employee’s
household is affected by an unexpected emergency;
(d) For compelling personal reasons, including family responsibilities.

36.6

The use of personal/carer’s leave for the reason outlined in clause 36.5(d) is not to be
to the detriment of an employee’s personal/carer’s leave entitlements under the NES.

Family responsibilities
36.7

For the purposes of personal/carer’s leave, ‘family responsibilities’ shall mean
responsibilities of the employee for any person who is clearly dependent on the
Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 24 of 43

employee for care, support and attention.
Public holidays during leave
36.8

Where a public holiday occurs in a period of personal leave, the public holiday will not
be deducted from the employee’s personal leave credits.

Satisfactory evidence
36.9

An employee will provide satisfactory evidence to support applications for
personal/carer’s leave of more than three consecutive working days.

36.10 If an employee takes 10 days personal/carer’s leave without satisfactory evidence in a
period of twelve months, then the employee must provide satisfactory evidence for any
further applications for personal/carer’s leave of any duration for the balance of the
period of 12 months, unless otherwise determined by the CEO.
36.11 For the purpose of this clause, the period of 12 months is the 12 month period
commencing on the anniversary date of the employee’s commencement of
employment with ACSQHC.
36.12 Satisfactory evidence means:
(a) A certificate from a relevant health/medical practitioner confirming an employee,
or a member of their family or household, has a personal illness or injury which
prevents the employee from performing their duties; or
(b) A statutory declaration confirming an employee, or a member of their family for
whom they have caring responsibility, has a personal illness or injury which
prevents the employee from performing their duties; or
(c) For the purposes of clauses 36.5(c) and 36.5(d) a statutory declaration setting
out the reason for the absence; or
(d) A medical treatment schedule or a medical certificate for an ongoing medical
condition of the employee, or a member of their family or household, which
cover absences for the treatment, or absences caused by the condition within a
period of three months; or
(e) Other evidence which the CEO determines is satisfactory.
36.13 Satisfactory evidence from registered health practitioners will be accepted for the
purpose of personal illness or injury, unless ACSQHC has sought independent medical
advice resulting in a different diagnosis and/or prognosis.
Conversion to half pay
36.14 The CEO may approve the conversion of personal/carer’s leave to half pay for an
employee for a specified absence of not less than two days. Where personal/carer’s
leave is taken at half pay, credits will be deducted from the employee’s personal/carer’s
leave balance on the basis that two days of personal/carer’s leave at half pay is
equivalent to one day of personal/carer’s leave at full pay.
Unpaid personal/carer’s leave
36.15 Where paid personal/carer’s leave credits are exhausted, an employee may apply for
personal/carer’s leave without pay. Continuous unpaid personal/carer’s leave to a total
of 26 weeks will count as service for all purposes. Any further continuous periods of
unpaid personal/carer’s leave will not count as service, except in circumstances
required by the LSL Act.

Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 25 of 43

Unpaid carer’s leave – casual employees
36.16 Casual employees are entitled to unpaid carer’s leave in accordance with the NES.
Reappointment after invalidity retirement
36.17 If an employee’s APS employment is terminated on the grounds of invalidity, and the
employee is subsequently re-engaged as a result of action taken under the relevant
superannuation legislation, the employee is entitled to be credited with personal/carer’s
leave equal to the balance of the employee’s personal/carer’s leave at the time of
termination.
Use of other types of leave during annual leave
36.18 The CEO may approve other types of leave during a period of annual leave if
satisfactory evidence is provided. Annual leave will be re-credited to the extent of any
other leave granted.
36.19 An employee is unable to access personal/carer’s leave while on paid parental leave
under this Agreement or the ML Act.
Payment on termination
36.20 Unused personal/carer’s leave will not be paid out on termination of employment.

37.

MISCELLANEOUS LEAVE

37.1

Miscellaneous leave may be granted by the CEO, having regard to any exceptional
circumstances affecting an employee and the operational needs of ACSQHC, including
for purposes that the CEO considers to be in the interests of ACSQHC.

37.2

Leave may be granted:
(a) For the period requested or for another period;
(b) With or without pay; and
(c) Subject to conditions.

38.

LEAVE FOR ABORIGINAL AND TORRES STRAIT ISLANDER EMPLOYEES

38.1

To allow Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander employees to meet cultural obligations
and participate in ceremonial activities, the following leave provisions are provided:
(a) Two days leave with pay each year to participate in NAIDOC Week activities or
other cultural or ceremonial events; and
(b) Three months unpaid leave each year to fulfil cultural obligations; this leave will
not count as service for any purpose.

39.

UNAUTHORISED ABSENCES

39.1

Periods of unauthorised absence do not count as service for any purpose. Where an
employee is absent from duty without approval, all pay and other benefits provided
under the Agreement (e.g. flextime) will cease to be available until the employee
resumes duty or is granted leave. Where flextime no longer applies, the employee will
revert to the standard day.

40.

WAR SERVICE SICK LEAVE

40.1

Eligible employees will generally be granted war service sick leave while unfit for duty
because of a war-caused condition.

40.2

A war-caused condition means an injury or disease of an employee that has been
Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 26 of 43

determined under the relevant legislation to be war-caused or defence-caused.
40.3

Eligible employees will accrue a credit of nine weeks on commencement in the APS
and an annual credit of three weeks for each year of APS service. Unused credits will
accumulate to a maximum of nine weeks.

41.

COMPASSIONATE LEAVE

41.1

Employees, other than casual employees, will be granted two days paid compassionate
leave on each occasion that a member of the employee’s family or the employee’s
household:
(a) Contracts or develops a personal illness that poses a serious threat to life; or
(b) Sustains a personal injury that poses a serious threat to life.

41.2

The employee may take the period of leave as a single period of two days or any
separate period on which the employee’s Manager and employee agree.

41.3

The employee’s Manager may require the employee to provide evidence of the illness
or injury in support of the request for leave.

41.4

A casual employee is entitled to unpaid compassionate leave of two days per
occurrence.

Bereavement leave
41.5

The employee’s Manager will grant three days leave with pay to an employee, other
than a casual employee, on each occasion of the death of a member of the employee’s
family or household, close friend or a person who was clearly dependent on the
employee for care, support and attention.

41.6

A casual employee is entitled to unpaid bereavement leave of two days per occurrence.

42.

PURCHASED LEAVE

42.1

Where a Manager agrees, an employee may purchase from one to six weeks
purchased leave per year. Leave, once purchased, shall generally be taken in
consecutive and continuous days.

42.2

Purchasing additional leave is not for the purpose of altering work patterns.

To count for service
42.3

Purchased leave will count for service for all purposes. The employee’s salary for
superannuation purposes continues to be their salary as if they had not purchased
leave.

43.

EXTENDED PURCHASED LEAVE

43.1

When an employee has accrued a period of three years of continuous employment with
ACSQHC, they may apply for access to extended purchased leave.

43.2

A period of up to six months absence on extended purchased leave will be approved
after a further two years of continuous employment with ACSQHC (during which time
the employee will accrue the leave).

Not to count for service
43.3

Extended purchased leave will not count as service for any purpose unless otherwise
required under legislation.

Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 27 of 43

44.

LEAVE FOR ADF RESERVE AND CONTINUOUS FULL TIME SERVICE

44.1

An employee may be granted leave (with or without pay) to enable the employee to
fulfil Australian Defence Force (ADF) Reserve and Continuous Full Time Service
(CFTS) or Cadet Force obligations.

44.2

An employee is entitled to leave with pay, for up to four weeks during each financial
year, and an additional two weeks paid leave in the first year of ADF Reserve Service,
for the purpose of fulfilling service in the ADF Reserve.

44.3

With the exception of the additional two weeks in the first year of service, leave can be
accumulated and taken over a period of two years.

44.4

An employee who is an officer or instructor of cadets in a Cadet Force may be granted
paid leave of up to three weeks each financial year to perform duties as an officer or
instructor of Cadets. For these purposes ‘Cadet Force’ means the Australian Navy
Cadets, Australian Army Cadets, or the Australian Air Force Cadets.

44.5

Defence Reserve leave counts as service for all purposes, except for unpaid leave to
undertake CFTS. Unpaid leave for the purpose of CFTS counts for all purposes except
annual leave.

45.

COMMUNITY SERVICE LEAVE

45.1

An employee will receive paid leave if they are eligible for community service leave as
provided by the NES.

46.

LONG SERVICE LEAVE

46.1

An employee is eligible for long service leave in accordance with the LSL Act.

46.2

The minimum period for which long service leave will be granted is seven calendar
days at full pay (or 14 days at half pay). Long service leave cannot be broken with other
periods of leave, except as otherwise provided by legislation.

47.

MATERNITY AND PARENTAL LEAVE

Maternity leave
47.1

Employees (other than casual employees) who are pregnant, or who have given birth,
are covered by the provisions of the Maternity Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Act
1973 (ML Act).

47.2

Employees with an entitlement to paid leave under the ML Act are provided with an
additional two weeks of paid leave, to be taken continuous with an entitlement to paid
maternity leave provided by the ML Act.

47.3

Employees who adopt or permanently foster a child and who have, or will have,
responsibility for the care of a child, are entitled to up to 52 weeks of parental leave. If
an employee is the primary caregiver to that child, up to 14 weeks of the leave will be
paid leave, commencing from the time of placement of the child, provided the employee
satisfies the same qualifying requirements as those required of a pregnant employee to
receive paid leave in accordance with the ML Act.

47.4

Employees are entitled to parental leave for adoption or permanent foster care when
that child:
(a) Is under 16 years of age;
(b) Has not, or will not have, lived continuously with the employee for a period of six
months or more as at the day (or expected day) of placement; and
(c) Is not (otherwise than because of the adoption) a child of the employee or the
Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 28 of 43

employee’s spouse.
47.5

Documentary evidence of approval for adoption or enduring parental responsibilities
under formal fostering arrangements must be submitted when applying for parental
leave for adoption or permanent foster care purposes.

47.6

Employees who are eligible for paid maternity or parental leave may elect to have the
payment for the leave spread over a maximum of 28 weeks at a rate no less than half
normal salary. Where payment is spread over a longer period, a maximum of 14 weeks
of the leave will count as service.

47.7

On ending the initial 52 weeks of maternity or parental leave, employees may request
an extension of unpaid parental leave for a further period of up to 52 weeks. The
second period of unpaid leave is to commence immediately following the initial leave
period.

47.8

Unpaid maternity or parental leave will not count as service for any purpose, except for
any unpaid leave taken during the first 14 weeks.

47.9

This leave is inclusive of public holidays and will not be extended because a public
holiday (or annual closedown) falls during a period of paid or unpaid maternity or
parental leave. On ending maternity or parental leave, employees have the return to
work guarantee and the right to request flexible working arrangements that are
provided by the FW Act.

Pre-adoption and foster leave
47.10 Employees in the process of adopting or fostering of a child may take up to two days
paid leave to attend any interviews or examinations required to obtain adoption or
foster care approval.
Special maternity leave
47.11 Where an employee who has at least 12 months continuous service with the APS
experiences a pregnancy related illness, or if her pregnancy ends within 28 weeks of
the expected birth, she will be granted paid personal leave for any period of leave
supported by a medical certificate. If personal leave credits are exhausted, the
remainder of leave will be unpaid in accordance with section 80 of the FW Act. Unpaid
special maternity leave will count as service for all purposes.
47.12 Special maternity leave will operate in conjunction with entitlements under the ML Act.
Parental (partner) leave
47.13 Employees who are not otherwise entitled to paid maternity leave under the ML Act or
parental leave under this Agreement are entitled to four weeks of paid leave and may
also receive unpaid leave up to a total of 52 weeks on the birth, adoption or permanent
foster care placement of a child or their spouse’s child. To be eligible for this leave, the
employee must be the child’s non-primary care giver and stand in a domestic or
household relationship with the child.
47.14 This leave is to be taken within 12 months of the birth/placement of the child and is
inclusive of public holidays and annual closedown.
47.15 Documentary evidence outlined in clause 47.5, or a birth certificate following the birth of
a child, must be submitted when applying for this leave.
47.16 Paid leave will count as service for all purposes. Employees may elect to have the
payment for this leave spread over a maximum of eight weeks at a rate no less than
half normal salary. Where payment is spread over a longer period, only half of the total
weeks of the leave period will count as service.
Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 29 of 43

47.17 The CEO may approve leave for a non-primary care giver not residing with the child.

Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 30 of 43

PART G – GENERAL CONDITIONS
48.

PERFORMANCE DEVELOPMENT SCHEME (PDS)

48.1

The PDS is ACSQHC’s key performance management and development system for
employees.

48.2

Specific performance requirements will be outlined in an employee’s PDS agreement.

48.3

The employee and the employee’s Manager are jointly responsible for developing and
implementing a PDS agreement.

48.4

Managers will apply a ‘no surprises’ principle to keep an employee regularly informed
of the employee’s performance throughout the PDS cycle.

48.5

Two formal PDS assessments will occur with:
(a) One at the mid cycle in February; and
(b) One at the end of the cycle in July.

48.6

The PDS provides the basis for individual salary advancement through salary ranges
for the employee’s current classification.

Short term HDA and the PDS
48.7

Where an employee has been temporarily assigned duties of a higher classification,
including for short periods, the performance of those duties will be taken into account in
an employee’s annual PDS review.

49.

MANAGING UNDERPERFORMANCE

49.1

Managers will address underperformance with an employee as soon as practicable
where they consider the employee’s performance has not been satisfactory.

49.2

An employee will be provided a minimum of four weeks, prior to the end of cycle
assessment, to improve their performance.

49.3

Where an employee’s performance continues to be unsatisfactory, relevant procedures
to manage the underperformance may apply.

Fairness in managing underperformance
49.4

Employees will receive regular and specific feedback on the employee’s performance
and will be provided with appropriate support from the employee’s Manager in meeting
expected performance standards.

50.

PROFESSIONAL APPOINTMENTS WITH MANDATORY QUALIFICATIONS

50.1

The ACSQHC recognises that a number of employees require continuing professional
development to maintain their qualifications, practicing certificates and relevant skills.
The ACSQHC will:
(a) Provide access to training; or
(b) On application meet the reasonable costs of continuing professional
development.

51.

SAFE AND HEALTHY WORK ENVIRONMENT

Family care room
51.1

The CEO will, where reasonably practicable, establish a family care room to provide a
Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 31 of 43

resource for employees to carry out aspects of their normal duties while caring for
dependants, as an alternative to taking leave. This room is to be for occasional not
regular use.
Employee Assistance Program
51.2

The CEO will provide employees and their families with access to confidential,
professional counselling through an external Employee Assistance Program (EAP).

Influenza vaccinations
51.3

The CEO will arrange for the provision of free annual influenza vaccinations to
employees.

After hours use of taxis
51.4

The relevant Manager may approve the use of taxis by an employee travelling from the
workplace after 7pm on a Monday to Friday.

Reimbursement of eyewear costs
51.5

Where spectacles are prescribed specifically for use with screen-based equipment,
ACSQHC will reimburse for out of pocket expenses up to:
(a) $106 for single vision spectacles; and
(b) $174.90 for bi-focal, multi-focal or tri-focal spectacles.

51.6

Visual correction that is recommended for general use, such as reading and driving, will
not be reimbursed.

52.

FAMILY CARE ASSISTANCE

52.1

Where an employee is required by ACSQHC to be away from home outside the
employee’s standard day, and the employee incurs reasonable additional costs for
family care arrangements the employee will be reimbursed those reasonable additional
costs as determined by the CEO.

School holiday family care subsidy
52.2

Clauses 52.3 to 52.4 apply where an employee can demonstrate that they would
otherwise have taken personal responsibility for caring for a school child or school
children or other family members during school holidays.

52.3

Where an employee has approved leave cancelled or is required to return from leave
early because of ACSQHC business requirements during school holidays, the CEO will
reimburse:
(a) The amount paid by the employee for each school child attending approved or
registered care
(b) Some or the entire amount paid for family care.

52.4

The reimbursement will:
(a) Apply only on the days when the employee is at work; and
(b) Be net of any government subsidy available to the employee.

53.

FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FOR MATURE AGE EMPLOYEES

53.1

To assist with retirement planning, employees aged 54 years and over who are
approaching or genuinely considering retirement may access financial assistance in the
form of a one off reimbursement payment up to a total maximum of $530 (inclusive of
GST) to obtain financial advice from a registered financial advisor.
Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 32 of 43

54.

TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT – RIGHT OF REVIEW

54.1

The sole and exhaustive rights and remedies of an employee in relation to termination
of employment are those that the employee has under:
(a) Parts 3-1 and 3-2 of the FW Act;
(b) Other Commonwealth laws; and
(c) Common law.

54.2

Termination of, or a decision to terminate, employment cannot be reviewed under
dispute resolution procedure outlined in the Agreement.

54.3

Nothing in the Agreement prevents the CEO from terminating the employment of an
employee for serious misconduct, without further notice or payment in lieu, in
accordance with the FW Act subject to compliance with the procedures established by
the CEO for determining whether an employee has breached the APS Code of
Conduct.

Resignation on a public holiday
54.4

Where an employee resigns on a public holiday, they will be deemed to have resigned
on the last working day prior to the public holiday.

Death of an employee
54.5

Where an employee dies whilst in employment, or the CEO has directed that an
employee is presumed to have died on a particular date whilst in employment, the CEO
will, subject to legal requirements, authorise the payment of the amount to which the
former employee would have been entitled had he or she ceased employment by
resignation or retirement. Long service leave credits will be paid out in accordance with
the LSL Act.

Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 33 of 43

PART H – CONSULTATION AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION
55.

CONSULTATION ON MAJOR CHANGE

55.1

This term applies if the CEO:
(a) Has made a definite decision to introduce a major change to production,
program, organisation, structure or technology in relation to its enterprise that is
likely to have a significant effect on the employees; or
(b) Proposes to introduce a change to the regular roster or ordinary hours of work of
employees.

Major change
55.2

For a major change referred to in paragraph 55.1(a):
(a) The CEO must notify the relevant employees of the decision to introduce the
major change; and
(b) Clauses 55.3 to 55.9 apply.

55.3

The relevant employees may appoint a representative for the purposes of the
procedures in this term.

55.4

If:
(a)

A relevant employee appoints, or relevant employees appoint, a representative
for the purposes of consultation; and
(b) The employee or employees advise the CEO of the identity of the
representative;
the CEO must recognise the representative.

55.5

As soon as practicable after making their decision, the CEO must:
(a) Discuss with the relevant employees:
i. The introduction of the change; and
ii. The effect the change is likely to have on the employees; and
iii. Measures the employer is taking to avert or mitigate the adverse effect
of the change on the employees; and
(b) For the purposes of the discussion—provide, in writing, to the relevant
employees:
i. All relevant information about the change including the nature of the
change proposed; and
ii. Information about the expected effects of the change on the employees;
and
iii. Any other matters likely to affect the employees.

55.6

However, the CEO is not required to disclose confidential or commercially sensitive
information to the relevant employees.

55.7

The CEO must give prompt and genuine consideration to matters raised about the
major change by the relevant employees.

55.8

If a term in this Agreement provides for a major change to production, program,
organisation, structure or technology in relation to the ACSQHC, the requirements set
out in paragraph 55.2(a) and clauses 55.3 and 55.5 are taken not to apply.

55.9

In this term, a major change is likely to have a significant effect on employees if it
results in:
Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 34 of 43

(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)

The termination of the employment of employees; or
Major change to the composition, operation or size of the ACSQHC’s workforce
or to the skills required of employees; or
The elimination or diminution of job opportunities (including opportunities for
promotion or tenure); or
The alteration of hours of work; or
The need to retrain employees; or
The need to relocate employees to another workplace; or
The restructuring of jobs.

Change to regular roster or ordinary hours of work
55.10 For a change referred to in paragraph 55.1(b):
(a) The CEO must notify the relevant employees of the proposed change; and
(b) Clauses 55.11 to 55.15 apply.
55.11 The relevant employees may appoint a representative for the purposes of the
procedures in this term.
55.12 If:
(a)
(b)

A relevant employee appoints, or relevant employees appoint, a representative
for the purposes of consultation; and
The employee or employees advise the CEO of the identity of the
representative;
the CEO must recognise the representative.

55.13 As soon as practicable after proposing to introduce the change, the CEO must:
(a) Discuss with the relevant employees the introduction of the change; and
(b) For the purposes of the discussion—provide to the relevant employees
i. All relevant information about the change, including the nature of the
change; and
ii. Information about what the CEO reasonably believes will be the effects
of the change on the employees; and
iii. Information about any other matters that the CEO reasonably believes
are likely to affect the employees; and
(c) Invite the relevant employees to give their views about the impact of the change
(including any impact in relation to their family or caring responsibilities).
55.14 However, the CEO is not required to disclose confidential or commercially sensitive
information to the relevant employees.
55.15 The CEO must give prompt and genuine consideration to matters raised about the
change by the relevant employees.
55.16 In this term:
Relevant employees means the employees who may be affected by a change referred
to in clause 55.1.

56.

DISPUTE RESOLUTION PROCEDURES

56.1

If a dispute relates to:
(a) A matter arising under the Agreement; or
(b) The NES;
this term sets out procedures to settle the dispute.
Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 35 of 43

56.2

An employee who is a party to the dispute may appoint a representative for the
purposes of the procedures in this term.

Resolution at the workplace level
56.3

In the first instance, the parties to the dispute must try to resolve the dispute at the
workplace level, by discussions between the employee or employees and relevant
supervisors and/or management.

56.4

If discussions at the workplace level do not resolve the dispute, a party to the dispute
may refer the matter to FWC.

Referral to FWC
56.5

The FWC may deal with the dispute in two stages:
(a) The FWC will first attempt to resolve the dispute as it considers appropriate,
including by mediation, conciliation, expressing an opinion or making a
recommendation; and
(b) If the FWC is unable to resolve the dispute at the first stage, the FWC may then:
i. Arbitrate the dispute; and
ii. Make a determination that is binding on the parties.
Note: If FWC arbitrates the dispute, it may also use the powers that are available to it under the FW Act. A
decision that FWC makes when arbitrating a dispute is a decision for the purpose of Div 3 of Part 5.1 of the
FW Act. Therefore, an appeal may be made against the decision .

56.6

The parties to the dispute agree to be bound by a decision made by FWC in
accordance with this term.

Work to continue
56.7

While the parties are trying to resolve the dispute using the procedures in this term:
(a) An employee must continue to perform his or her work as he or she would
normally unless he or she has a reasonable concern about an imminent risk to
his or her health or safety; and
(b) An employee must comply with a direction given by the employer to perform
other available work at the same workplace, or at another workplace, unless:
i. The work is not safe; or
ii. Applicable occupational health and safety legislation would not permit
the work to be performed; or
iii. The work is not appropriate for the employee to perform; or
iv. There are other reasonable grounds for the employee to refuse to
comply with the direction.

Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 36 of 43

PART I – REDPLOYMENT, REDUCTION AND
RETRENCHMENT
57.

EXCESS EMPLOYEES

Definition
57.1

An employee is ‘excess’ when:
(a) They are included in a class of employees in ACSQHC comprising a greater
number than is necessary for the efficient and economical working of ACSQHC;
(b) Due to technological or other changes in the work methods of ACSQHC, or
structural or other changes in the nature, extent or organisation of the functions
of ACSQHC, the services of the employee cannot be effectively used; or
(c) The duties usually performed by the employee are to be performed at a different
locality and the employee is not willing to perform those duties at the new
locality, and the CEO has determined that the provisions of this clause may
apply to that employee.

Eligible employees
57.2

The provisions of this Part only apply to ongoing employees other than employees on
probation.

CEO’s powers
57.3

The powers of the CEO with regard to excess employees allow the CEO to:
(a) Reassign duties to an employee within ACSQHC and determine the place at
which the duties are performed
(b) Consider options for redeployment of the employee to another APS agency
(c) Reduce the classification level of an employee on the grounds that the
employee is excess to the requirements of ACSQHC at the higher classification
level
(d) Terminate the employment of an employee on the grounds that the employee is
excess to the requirements of ACSQHC.

Timely advice
57.4

When the CEO is aware that an employee is likely to become excess, the CEO will
advise the employee at the earliest practicable time.

57.5

The CEO will hold discussions with the potentially excess employee to consider:
(a) Redeployment opportunities for the employee concerned; and
(b) Whether voluntary retrenchment might be appropriate.

Referral to employee – initial discussion
57.6

Where an employee is identified as potentially excess, the CEO will hold an initial
discussion with the employee and/or the employee’s representative.

57.7

During this initial discussion period of one month, unless the employee agrees to a
lesser period, the CEO will not:
(a) Invite the employee to accept an offer of voluntary retrenchment; or
(b) Advise that employee in writing that they are excess.

57.8

The CEO may, prior to the conclusion of these discussions, invite employees who are
Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 37 of 43

not potentially excess to express an interest in voluntary retrenchment, where those
retrenchments would permit the redeployment of employees who are potentially
excess. The CEO will not advise an employee they are excess until the discussions
referred to in clause 57.5 have occurred.

58.

VOLUNTARY RETRENCHMENT

58.1

Where the CEO invites an excess employee to accept voluntary retrenchment, the
employee will have one month to accept or reject the invitation. The CEO will not give
notice of termination on the grounds that the employee is excess to requirements,
before the end of that period or until such acceptance is received (where the
acceptance is received before the end of that period).

Information to employee
58.2

At the time of inviting the employee to accept a voluntary retrenchment, the CEO will
provide the employee the following information:
(a) The amounts of redundancy pay, payment in lieu of notice, and likely payment in
lieu of leave credits;
(b) The amount of accumulated superannuation contributions;
(c) The options open to the employee concerning superannuation; and
(d) The taxation rules applying to the various payments.

Financial assistance
58.3

Employees considering voluntary retrenchment also have access to financial
assistance up to a total maximum of $477 (inclusive of GST) for financial counselling,
and a further $477 (inclusive of GST) for career counselling where such career
counselling is not otherwise provided through the EAP.

Period of notice
58.4

Where an employee accepts an offer of voluntary retrenchment and the CEO approves
the employee’s termination, the CEO will give the employee a period of notice of four
weeks, or five weeks for an employee over 45 years of age with at least five years of
continuous service.

Payment in lieu of notice
58.5

Where an employee retires or is retrenched at the beginning of, or within the notice
period, he or she will receive payment in lieu of notice for the unexpired portion of the
notice period.

59.

REDUNDANCY BENEFIT

59.1

Where an employee accepts an offer of voluntary retrenchment and the CEO
terminates the employee’s employment, the employee is entitled to be paid a
redundancy benefit of a sum equal to two week’s salary for each completed year of
service, plus a pro-rata payment for completed months of service since the last
completed year of service, subject to any minimum amount the employee is entitled to
under the NES.

59.2

The minimum sum payable will be four week’s salary and the maximum will be 48
week’s salary.

Part-time service
59.3

The redundancy benefit will be calculated on a pro-rata basis for any period where an
Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 38 of 43

employee has worked part-time hours during the employee’s period of service and the
employee has less than 24 years full-time service, subject to any minimum amount the
employee is entitled to under the NES.
Earlier periods of service
59.4

For earlier periods of service to count there must be no breaks between the periods of
service, except where:
(a) The break in service is less than one month and occurs where an offer of
employment with the new employer was made and accepted by the employee
before ceasing employment with the preceding employer; or
(b) The earlier period of service was with the APS and ceased because the
employee was deemed to have resigned from the APS on marriage under the
then section 49 (as repealed in 1966) of the repealed Public Service Act 1922.

Service for redundancy benefits purposes
59.5

Subject to clause 59.4, and having regard to clauses 59.1 to 59.3 and clause 59.8,
service for redundancy benefit purposes means:
(a) Service in ACSQHC;
(b) Government service as defined in section 10 of the LSL Act;
(c) Service with the Commonwealth (other than service with a Joint
Commonwealth/State body or a body corporate in which the Commonwealth
does not have a controlling interest) which is recognised for long service leave
purposes;
(d) Service with the ADF;
(e) APS service immediately preceding deemed resignation under the then section
49 (as repealed in 1966) of the repealed Public Service Act 1922, if the service
has not previously been recognised for redundancy pay purposes; and
(f)
Service in another organisation where an employee was transferred from the
APS to that organisation with a transfer of function; or an employee engaged by
that organisation on work within a function is appointed as a result of the transfer
of that function to the APS and such service is recognised for long service leave
purposes.

Service not to count
59.6

Having regard to clause 59.5, any period of service which ceased:
(a) Through termination on the following grounds, or on a ground equivalent to any
of the following grounds
i. The employee lacks, or has lost, an essential qualification for
performing the employee’s duties; or
ii. Non-performance, or unsatisfactory performance, of duties; or
iii. Inability to perform duties because of physical or mental incapacity; or
iv. Failure to satisfactorily complete an entry level training course; or
v. Failure to meet a condition of the employee’s engagement; or
vi. A breach of the Code of Conduct; or
(b) On a ground equivalent to a ground listed in subparagraph (a) above under the
repealed Public Service Act 1922; or
(c) Through voluntary retrenchment at or above the minimum retiring age applicable
to the employee; or
(d) With the payment of a redundancy benefit or similar payment or an employerAustralian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 39 of 43

financed retirement benefit
will not count as service for redundancy benefit purposes.
59.7

Absences from work which do not count as service for any purpose will not count as
service for redundancy benefit purposes.

Redundancy benefit – rate of payment
59.8

For the purpose of calculating any payment under this clause, salary will include:
(a) The employee's salary; or
(b) The salary of the higher position, where the employee has performed duties at
the higher level for a continuous period of at least 12 months immediately
preceding the date on which the employee is given notice of retrenchment; and
(c) Other allowances in the nature of salary which are paid during periods of annual
leave and on a regular basis, excluding allowances which are a reimbursement
for expenses incurred, or a payment for disabilities associated with the
performance of duty.

60.

INVOLUNTARY RETRENCHMENT

Retention periods
60.1

Where an excess employee has not accepted an offer of voluntary retrenchment, the
excess employee will not be involuntarily terminated by the CEO until the following
retention periods have elapsed:
(a) 56 weeks where an employee has 20 or more years of service or is over 45
years of age; or
(b) 30 weeks for other employees.

60.2

If an employee is entitled to a redundancy payment under the NES, the retention period
at clauses 60.1(a) and 60.1(b) above, is reduced by the number of weeks redundancy
pay that the employee will be entitled to under the NES on termination, calculated as at
the expiration of the retention period (as adjusted by this clause).

Retention period commencement
60.3

The retention period will commence on the earlier of the following:
(a) The day the employee is advised in writing by the CEO that the employee is an
excess employee; or
(b) One month after the day on which the CEO invites the employee to elect to be
voluntarily retrenched.

Redeployment attempts
60.4

During a retention period the CEO and the excess employee will take reasonable steps
to find alternative employment for the excess employee, this may include the provision
of appropriate training.

Travel expenses incurred
60.5

The excess employee may request assistance in meeting reasonable travel and
incidental expenses incurred in seeking alternative employment where these expenses
are not met by a prospective employer.

Termination of employment during retention period
60.6

Where the CEO believes there is insufficient productive work available for an excess
Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 40 of 43

employee during the retention period, the CEO may terminate the employee’s
employment and pay a lump sum comprising:
(a) The balance of the retention period (as shortened for the NES) under clauses
60.1 and 60.2 and this payment will be taken to include the payment in lieu of
notice of termination of employment, plus;
(b) The employee’s NES entitlement to redundancy pay.
Notice period
60.7

An excess employee will not be involuntarily terminated without being given four weeks’
notice (or five weeks’ notice for an employee over 45 years of age with at least five
years of continuous service). Wherever possible, this notice period will be concurrent
with the retention period.

Reduction in classification
60.8

During a retention period, the CEO:
(a) Will continue to take reasonable steps to find alternative employment for the
excess employee; and/or
(b) May, with four weeks’ notice, reduce the excess employee's classification as a
means of securing alternative employment for the excess employee.

Income maintenance as a result of reduction in classification
60.9

Where an excess employee is reduced in classification before the end of the
appropriate retention period, the employee will continue to be paid at the employee’s
previous level for the balance of the retention period with the exception of reductions
for breaches of the APS Code of Conduct.

Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 41 of 43

Attachment A – Salary table
Classification

On commencement
2%

One year from
commencement
2%

Two years from
commencement
2%

Executive Level 2
(EL2)

$144,791
$137,840
$133,386
$122,294

$147,686
$140,597
$136,054
$124,740

$150,640
$143,409
$138,775
$127,235

Executive Level 1
(EL1)

$116,906
$112,279
$106,963
$102,502

$119,244
$114,524
$109,103
$104,552

$121,628
$116,815
$111,285
$106,643

APS 6

$94,101
$92,040
$87,458
$83,412

$95,983
$93,881
$89,207
$85,080

$97,903
$95,759
$90,991
$86,782

APS 5

$80,580
$76,538
$74,511

$82,192
$78,069
$76,001

$83,836
$79,630
$77,521

APS 4

$73,452
$71,429
$69,517

$74,921
$72,858
$70,907

$76,420
$74,315
$72,325

APS 3

$68,010
$64,926
$63,095
$61,358

$69,370
$66,224
$64,357
$62,585

$70,758
$67,549
$65,644
$63,837

APS 2

$57,940
$56,330
$54,688
$53,095

$59,099
$57,456
$55,782
$54,157

$60,281
$58,605
$56,897
$55,240

$51,021
$48,647
$47,036
$45,430
$41,342
$36,799
$31,801
$27,258

$52,041
$49,620
$47,977
$46,338
$42,169
$37,535
$32,437
$27,804

$53,082
$50,613
$48,936
$47,265
$43,012
$38,286
$33,086
$28,360

APS 1
(adult)
(at 20 years)
(at 19 years)
(at 18 years)
(under 18 years)

Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 42 of 43

Counts as salary for superannuation
purposes (CSS and PSSdb only. Members
of other superannuation funds refer to
clause 18)
Counts towards salary for calculation of
additional duty salary
Payable during long service leave
Payable during any other leave other than
long service leave
Reduced pro-rata during period of half pay
leave (if payable during leave)
Included in income maintenance for
excess employees
Included in salary for calculation of
retrenchment redundancy payments
Included in salary for payment in lieu of
notice of termination of employment
Payment in lieu of long service leave
Payment in lieu of recreation leave

Allowance

Attachment B – Recognition of allowances for particular
purposes

Higher duties allowance
@


*
*


*
*
*
#
^

Workplace responsibility
allowance


X


X
X
X
X


X
X

KEY

#
Yes, if in receipt of allowance for a continuous period of greater than 12 months


Yes

^
Yes, if in receipt of allowance on last day of service

X
No

@
Yes, subject to a qualifying period in accordance with the Superannuation (CSS/PSS)
Salary Regulations 1978, unless indicated otherwise in the Agreement

*
Yes, subject to certain conditions

Australian Commission on Safety and Quality in Health Care – Enterprise Agreement 2019–2022
Page 43 of 43

