[2016] FWCA 7594

DECISION
Fair Work Act 2009
s.185—Enterprise agreement

Australian Law Reform Commission
(AG2016/5611)

AUSTRALIAN LAW REFORM COMMISSION ENTERPRISE
AGREEMENT 2016-19
Commonwealth employment
COMMISSIONER LEE

MELBOURNE, 20 OCTOBER 2016

Application for approval of the Australian Law Reform Commission Enterprise Agreement
2016-19.
[1]
An application has been made for approval of an enterprise agreement known as the
Australian Law Reform Commission Enterprise Agreement 2016-19 (the Agreement). The
application was made pursuant to s.185 of the Fair Work Act 2009 (the Act). It has been made
by Australian Law Reform Commission. The Agreement is a single enterprise agreement.
[2]
The Applicant has provided written undertakings. A copy of the undertakings is
attached in Annexure A. I am satisfied that the undertakings will not cause financial detriment
to any employee covered by the Agreement and that the undertakings will not result in
substantial changes to the Agreement.
[3]
Subject to the undertakings referred to above, I am satisfied that each of the
requirements of ss.186, 187, 188 and 190 as are relevant to this application for approval have
been met.
[4]
The CPSU, the Community and Public Sector Union being a bargaining representative
for the Agreement, has given notice under s.183 of the Act that it wants the Agreement to
cover it. In accordance with s.201(2) I note that the Agreement covers the organisation.

1

[2016] FWCA 7594

[5]
The Agreement was approved on 20 October 2016 and, in accordance with s.54, will
operate from 27 October 2016. The nominal expiry date of the Agreement is 27 October 2019.

COMMISSIONER
Printed by authority of the Commonwealth Government Printer
<Price code G, AE421806 PR586686>

2

[2016] FWCA 7594

Annexure A

Australian Government
Australian Law Reform Commission

Professor Rosalind C)·oucher AM
Pr esident

Attachment 2
AG2016/5611 - Application for appr oval of the Austnlian Law Reform Commissioner
Enterp1·ise Agreement 2016-19

L Rosalind Frances Croucher, a> the President of the ALRC, on behalf of the Collllllonwealth, give
the following undertakings with re;pect to the ALRC Enterprise Agreement 20 I 6- I 9:
R. The ALRC will not direct or require an employee at the APS 1 to 6 classification to
work out>ide the ;pan of hours of 8.00 am to 6.00 pm Monday to Friday set out in the
APS Award 20 I 5, except where this is required for the purpose of work-related travel.

2. Where an employee at the APS 1 to APS 6 classification is required to work outside the
span of hours set out in the APS Award 2015, for the purpose ofwork-re1ated travel, the
employee will acctunulate flex time, for the time worked out>ide the ;pan of hours, at
the relevant rate or rates in respect of overtime in the APS Award 2015, that is, at 150%,
200% or 250% of ordinary time, depending on when the time is worked.

Signed:

Professor Rosalind Frances Croucher AM
d - ALRC, Level 40, MLC Tower, 19 Martin Place, Sydney 2000
Dated: 13 October 20 I 6

3

Australian Law Reform Commission

Enterprise Agreement 2016-19

Australian Government
Australian Law Reform Commission

Enterprise Agreement 2016-19

1

Australian Law Refonn Commission

Part A:

Enterprise Agreement 2016-1 9

Introduction .......................................................................................................................................... 4

1.

Title

4

2.

Parties Bound by this Agreement

4

3.

Commencement and Duration

4

4.

Supporting Documents and Legislation

4

5.

Delegation

5

6.

Definitions

5

Part B:

Appointment .......................................................................................................................................... 6

7.

Appointment

6

8.

Probation

6

9.

Full-time or Part-time Employment

6

Part C:

Remuneration ........................................................................................................................................ 6

10.

Salary Increases

6

11.

Classifications and Salary Rates

7

12.

Casual Salary Rates and Junior Salary Rates

7

13.

Payment of Salary

7

14.

Salary Advancement

8

15.

Performance and Development

8

16.

Managing Underperformance

9

17.

Temporary Assignment of Higher Duties-Acting Positions

9

18.

Superannuation

10

Part D:

Work Arrangements .......................................................................................................................... lO

19.

Public Holidays

10

20.

Hours of Duty

11

21.

Flextime Applicable to staff in categories APS l-APS 6, L01-L09

II

22.

TOIL: Excess Hours for Senior and Executive Employees

12

23.

Reporting Absences

12

24.

Individual Flexibility Arrangements

13

25.

Requests for Flexible Working Arrangements

14

PartE:

Leave Provisions ................................................................................................................................. 14

26.

Annual Leave

14

27.

Cashing out of Annual Leave

15

28.

Purchased Annual Leave

15

29.

Personal Leave/Carer's Leave

15

30.

Long Service Leave

17

31.

Maternity and Parental Leave

17

32.

Supporting partner/other primary caregiver leave

18

33.

Defence Reserve Service Leave

18

34.

Community Service Leave

18
2

Australian Law Refonn Commission

Enterprise Agreement 2016-19

36.

Study Leave

19

37.

Discretionary Miscellaneous Leave

19

38.

Portability of Leave

20

Part F:

Allowances ........................................................................................................................................... 20

39.

Travel

20

40.

First Aid

20

41.

Re-location Expenses

21

Part G:
42.

Part H:

A Healthy Working Environment ..................................................................................................... 21
Health and Wellbeing

21

Misconduct, Termination of Employment and Resignation ........................................................... 21

43.

Misconduct

21

44.

Review of Decisions to Terminate Employment

21

45.

Resignation

22

Part 1:
46.

Redundancy and Redeployn1ent ........................................................................................................ 22
Redundancy and redeployment

22

Part J: Resolution of Agreement Disputes a nd Consultation .......................................................................... 23
47.

Resolution of Agreement Disputes

23

48.

Consultation

24

49.

Consultation on Major Changes

25

Part L:

Acceptance of the Agreement ............................................................................................................ 27

Signatures

27

Part M: Schedules ............................................................................................................................................. 29

3

Australian Law Reform Commission

Enterprise Agreement 2016-1 9

Part A: Introduction

1.

Title

1.1

This Enterprise Agreement sha ll be known as the 'Australian Law Reform
Commission Enterprise Agreement 20 16-19'.

2.

Parties Bound by this Agreement

2. 1

This Enterprise Agreement (the Agreement) is made under section 172 of the Fair
Work Act 2009 (Cth) and applies to:
(a)

the President of the ALRC on beh alf ofthe Commonwealth; and

(b)

all ALRC employees who are not part of the Senior Executive Service, as
defined in the Public Service Act 1999(Cth).

3.

Commencement and Duration

3. 1

This Agreement sh all come into operation seven days after the date on which it is
approved by Fair Work Commission (FWC), and shall nominally expire 3 years
after the d ate of commencement.

4.

Supporting Documents and Legislation

4.1

Although various employment policies, advices and guidelines (as varied from
time to time) are referred to within this Agreement and support the operation of
this Agreement, it is not the intention that the policies, advices or guide lines form
part of the Agreement. If there is a ny conflict between the policies, advices or
gu idelines and the Agreement, the express terms of the Enterprise Agreement
prevail over the policies or guide lines to the extent of any inconsistencies.

4.2

Without incorporation of the terms of any legislation into th is Agreement, it is
acknowledged that the employment of em ployees covered by this Agreement is
subject to various Acts (and regulations or instruments made under those Acts)
including but not limited to the following Commonwealth Acts:
(a)

Australian Law Reform Commission Act 1996;

(b)

Fair Work Act 2009;

(c)

Public Service Act 1999;

(d)

Long Service Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1976;

(e)

Maternity Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1973;

(f)

Work Health and Safety Act 2011;

(g)

Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988;

(h)

Superannuation Act 1976;

(i)

Superannuation (Productivity Benefit) Act 1988;

U)

Superannuation A ct 1990; and
4

Australian Law Reform Commission

(k)

Enterprise Agreement 20 16-1 9

Superannuation Act 2009.

5.

Delegation

5. 1

T he President may delegate any of his or her powers and functions under this
Agreement to a nominated SES officer.

5.2

Where a power or authority conferred by this Agreement does not refer to a
nominated person, it shall be read as a power or authority of the President.

6.

Definitions

6. 1

Wherever the following terms occur they mean :
(a)

'Agreement' means the Australian Law Reform Commission Ente1prise Agreement
2015-18

(b)

' ALRC' means the Australian Law Reform Commission

(c)

'Commissioner' means a full-time or part-time ALRC Member as defined
under the Australian Law Reform Commission Act 1996 (Cth);

(d)

' Employee' means an employee of the ALRC engaged under the Public
Sen 1ice A ct 1999 (Cth) to whom this Enterptise Agreement applies but does
not include Commonwea lth Statutory Officers and Senior Executive Service
officers;

(e)

'Fair Work Act' means the Fair Work Act 200 9 (Cth);

(f)

'Flex' means flextime;

(g)

' FWC' means Fair Work Commission;

(h)

' Immediate family' means a person who is a spouse or former spouse, de
facto pa11ner or former de facto pmtner, a child, parent, grandparent,
grandchild or sibling of an employee or a child, parent, grandparent,
grandchild or sibling of an employee's spouse or de facto partner.

(i)

ML Act means the Maternity Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1973
(Cth);

U)

' President' means the President of the ALRC who is also the Accountable
Authority of the ALRC;

(k)

' PS SAp' means the Publi c Sector Superannuation Accumulation Plan;

(1)

' Salary' means the employee's rate of pay in accordance w ith his or her
classification (pro rata where applicable) as shown in Schedule 1. This rate
of pay will be sala1y for superannuation (subj ect to superannuation scheme
rules), severance and tennination. Participation in salary sacrifice
arrangements or purchased leave options will not affect sala1y for these
purposes;

(m)

'Senior and Executive Employees' means employees who are classified as
Executive Level 1 or Executive Level 2 (including Senior Legal Officers and
Principal Legal Officers);

(n)

'Settlement period' means a fortnight coinciding with the pay fortnight;

5

Australian Law Refonn Commi ssion

Enterprise Agreement 20 16-19

(o)

'Supervisor' means the President, a Commissioner or the Executive Director,
who is responsible for supervising the work of an employee.

(p)

'TOIL' means tim e off in lieu.

Part B: Appointment

7.

Appointment

7.1

The ALRC engages employees in accordance with section 22 of the Public Service
Act 1999(Cth).

8.

Probation

8. 1

All new employees shall be required to serve a probation period of six months as a
condition of engagement , unless they have transfened from an APS agency where
they have been in continuous employment for more than 12 months.

8.2

On the basis of an assessment at the end of a probation period, the President may:
(a) detennine that the conditions of probation have been satisfied; or
(b) terminate the employment.

9.

Full-time or Part-time Employment

9. 1

Engagement may be made on a full-time or part-time basis and the basis of
employment may be varied as agreed between the President and the employee.

9.2

A part-time employee is one whose regular hours of work over a settlement period
are fewer than 73 hours and 30 minutes.

9.3

Remuneration and other tenns and conditions for a pm1-time employee are to be
calculated proportionately to the remuneration and other conditions applying to a
full-time employee at the same classification. Expense related allowances for a
part-time employee are the same as for a fu ll-time employee of the same
classification.

Part C: Remuneration

10.

Salary Increases

I0.1

Salaries payable to employees of the ALRC under this Agreement will be
increased as follows:
•

3%

from the date of the commencement of the Agreement;

•

1.5% increase twelve months following the date of the commencement of the
Agreement;

•

1.5% increase twenty-four months following the date of the commencement
of the Agreement.
6

Australian Law Refonn Commission

Enterprise Agreement 2016-19

11.

Classifications and Salary Rates

11.1

The classification structure and salary rates for employees employed under this
Agreement reflects the classification structures of the APS, and is set out in
Schedule 1 of this Agreement.

11 .2

The starting salary for an employee who is assigned a position on engagement or
promotion, or on movement from another APS agency, will be at the minimum pay
point for the classification or broadband. The President may approve a starting
salary at a higher pay point in recognition of pat1icular skills or additional
responsibilities, or to meet operational requirements.

11 .3

An employee who is below the maximum pay point of their classification level,
will be considered for progression to the next highest pay point within their
classification level at the time of their participation in the Performance and
Development Scheme (PADS).

11.4

Employees who transfer to the ALRC from another APS agency or are newly
engaged at the ALRC are not eligible for incremental progression until 12 months
after their commencement at the ALRC.

12.

Casual Salary Rates and Junior Salary Rates

12.1

If an employee is employed for duties that are intetmittent or in·egular, the employee
is entitled to receive a 20% loading for the intermittent or irregular nature of the
duties in lieu of all paid leave and public holidays on which the casual employee is
not rostered to work, other than Long Service Leave.

12.2

Junior rates of pay are a percentage of the minimum salary for an employee
classified at ALRC 1. The rates are:
•

under 18 years of age - 60%

•

at 18 years of age- 70%

•

at 19 years of age- 81%

•

at 20 years of age- 91%.

13.

Payment of Salary

13.1

Employees shall be paid fortnightly in arrears by Electronic Funds Transfer into a
financial institution account nominated by the employee.

13.2

The fm1nightly pay shall be based on the following formula:
Fm1nightly pay= annual salary x 12/313.

13.3

Employees may elect to salary sacrifice into a complying superannuation fund of
their choice under the tetms and conditions of their superannuation fund and the
advice of the Australian Taxation Office. Employees are responsible for obtaining
independent financial advice in relation to salary sacrifice arrangements.

7

Australian Law Refonn Commission

Enterprise Agreement 2016-1 9

14.

Salary Advancement

14.1

Salary advancement is determined through the ALRC's Perfo rmance and
Development Scheme (PADS).

14.2

An employee may only progress w ithin the pay scale for his or her classification
after 12 months service at a particular salary point and subject to their performance
rating, as per the PADS. An employee will not progress within the pay scale unless
they achieve a perfonnance rating of at least 'Meets all performance expectations'.

14.3

An employee can only progress from one classification to another w ithin a
broadband if the President dete1mines that sufficient work is available at the higher
classification level, the employee is assessed as having gained the necessary skills
and proficiencies for the more complex work, and the employee achieves a
minimum performance rating of ' Meets all performance expectations'.

14.4

Where an employee has taken 30 calendar days or more of leave without payincluding unpaid matemity, adoption, foster, parental or miscellaneous leave- any
salary advancement w ill be deferred by the corresponding number of days leave.

15.

Performance and Development

15.1

At every 12 months anniversary of an employee' s appointment, the ALRC will
rev iew the employee's salary, performance and career development in accordance
w ith the ALRC Performance and Development Scheme. All employees must
participate in the ALRC Perfonnance and Development Scheme (PADS).

15.2

The PADS provides process to determine eligibility for perfmmance based salary
advancement and to identify any professional development needs.

15.3

The PADS provides a basis for:
•

appropriately rewarding work performance;

•

identifying opportunities for the development of skills and knowledge; and

•

addressing underperfmmance.

15.4

Fm1her infmmation about the PADS is outlined in the ALRC Performance and
Development Scheme Policy.

15.5

Employees who are not at the maximum pay point level for their classification w ill
be eligible for progression to a higher pay point, based on a performance appraisal.
If rated as meeting all perfonnance expectations, the employee will progress one
pay point. If rated as exceeding performance expectations, the employee w ill
progress two pay points. If rated as meeting most or not meeting performance
expectations, the employee will remain on current pay point or go down one or
more pay points if underperfmmance is not rectified by following the process
outlined at Clause 16. Fm1her infonnation can be found in the ALRC's
Performance and Development Policy.

15.6

An employee who is at the maximum salary point for a classification will be
eligible for a bonus of up to 2% of his or her annual salary, based on a
performance appraisal. If rated as meeting all perfonnance expectations, the bonus
wi ll be I%. If rated as 'exceeding', the bonus will be 2%. If rated as meeting most
or not meeting performance expectations, there w ill be no bonus awarded.
8

Australian Law Reform Commission

Enterprise Agreement 2016-19

15.7

Non-ongoing employees are not eligible for salary advancement under the PADS.

15.8

Opportunities for professional development are outlined in the PADS. The annual
process of perfmmance appraisal will identify staff development and/or training
needs. The ALRC may provide funding for staff to undertake professional
development where a need has been identified through the PADS process and there
is a clear connection with the ALRC work program and the career development of
the employee.

16.

Managing Underperformance

16.1

Where an employee is not meeting the performance expectations of their role and
classification, a performance management strategy will be put in place. However,
underperfmmance may be addressed at any time with an employee.

16.2

When an employee's performance is not meeting required standards, the supervisor
will work cooperatively with the employee to attain and sustain the standards
required. This may include the provision of coaching, training and counselling.

16.3

The employee may be suppotted by a person of their choice during the process and for
any meetings that are relevant to the process.

16.4

If after a reasonable period of support the employee' s performance continues to be
unsatisfactory, this will be notified to the employee in writing and a formal
underperformance process will commence. Further information about managing under
performance can be found in the ALRC Perfotmance and Development policy.

16.5

Underperfmmance will be managed in accordance with the following principles:
•
•
•
•

applying natural justice principles and giving employees an opportunity to
respond to concerns about their perfonnance;
applying transparent processes to ensure procedural fairness;
maintaining open, honest and two-way communications at all times; and
taking individual circumstances into account, including relevant health issues.

17.

Temporary Assignment of Higher Duties-Acting Positions

17.1

The President may assign higher duties to an employee to meet the operational
requirements of the ALRC.

17.2

Any assignment to a higher classification in an acting role will be based on an
assessment of the employee's work-related abilities and the President' s assessment
of the resources needed by the ALRC at any patticular time to meet its objectives.

17.3

An employee perfmming the duties of a position at a higher classification will
receive payment at the minimum pay point for the higher classification subsequent
to one month of continuous performance at the higher level and provided that the
President has made an assessment that the employee ' s performance has been at the
higher level.

17.4

An employee on temporary assignment to higher duties is eligible to be advanced
to higher pay points for the higher classification only if the employee has
perfotmed at the higher classification for a continuous period of 12 months and

9

Australian Law Refonn Commission

Enterprise Agreement 2016-19

their performance has been assessed under the PADS as being eligible for
advancement.

18.

Superannuation

18.1

The ALRC will make compulsory employer contributions as required by the
applicable legislation and fund requirements.

18.2

Where an employee has chosen an accumulation superannuation fund other than the
PSS Accumulation Plan (PSSap), the employer contribution will be the same
percentage of the fortnightly superannuation contribution salary as that required for
employees who are members of PSSap. This will not be reduced by any other
contributions made through salary sacrifice anangements. This clause does not
apply where a superannuation fund cannot accept employer superannuation
contributions (e.g. unable to accept contributions for people aged over 75 yrs).

18.3

At the time of commencement of this Agreement, the rate of PSSap employer
contribution is 15.4 percent.

18.4

Employer superannuation contributions will not be paid on behalf of employees
during periods of unpaid leave that do not count as service, unless otherwise
required under legislation.

18.5

The President may choose to limit superannuation choice to complying
superannuation fund s that allow employee and/or employer contributi ons to be paid
through fo11nightl y electronic funds transfer.

Part D: Work Arrangements

19.

Public Holidays

19.1

Employees will be entitled to the following public holidays:
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

New Year's Day (1 January);
Australia Day (26 January);
Good Friday;
Easter Monday;
Anzac Day (25 April);
The Queen's bi11hday holiday (on the day on which it is celebrated in NSW);
Clu·istmas Day (25 December);
Boxing Day (26 December);
Any other day, or pat1-day, declared or prescribed by or under a law of a State
or TetTitory in which the ALRC is based to be observed as a public holiday,
other than a day or part-day, or a kind of day or pa11-day, that is excluded by
the Fair Work regulations from counting as a public holiday.

19.2

If under a law of a State or Territory, a day or pa11 day is substituted for one of the
public holidays in clause 1, then the substituted day or part day is the public holiday.

19.3

The President and an employee may agree on the substituti on of a day or part day
that would otherwise be a public holiday, having regard to operational requirements.
10

Australian Law Reform Commission

Enterprise Agreement 2016-19

19.4

An employee, who is absent on a day or part-day that is a public holiday in the place
where the employee is based for work purposes, is entitled to be paid for the day or
pmt day absence as if that day or part day was not a public holiday, except where
that person would not normally have worked on that day.

19.5

Where a public holiday falls during a period when an employee is absent on leave
(other than annual or paid personal/carer's leave), there is no entitlement to receive
payment as a public holiday. Payment for that day would be in accordance with the
entitlement for that form of leave (e.g. if on long service leave on half pay,
payment is at half pay).

19.6

Christmas Closure-The ALRC office will close between Christmas Day and
New Year' s Day. Employees will be paid for the working days between Christmas
Day and New Year's Day in accordance with their ordinary hours of work. Where
an employee is absent on leave during this time, payment for the Clu·istmas closure
will be in accordance with the entitlement for that form of leave (for example, if on
long service leave with half pay, then the payment is on half pay).

20.

Hours of Duty

20.1

The ordinary hours of work for a full-time employee are 7 hours 21 minutes per
day from Monday to Friday-a total of 36 hours 45minutes per week-(73 hours
30 minutes per settlement period).

20.2

The times when an employee may work ordinary hours are between 7.30am to
7.30pm Monday to Friday, with a one-hour lunch break between 12.00pm and
2.00pm. Employees must be in attendance during the core hours of lOam to 12 noon,
and 2pm to 4pm.

20.3

An employee may be required to perform reasonable additional hours to meet
operational requirements.

20.4

For pmt-time employees, ordinary hours of work over the settlement period are the
number of hours decided by the President for the employee' s position and/or as
stated in the employee's engagement letter.

20.5

Each day, employees in classification bands APS l-APS 6, L01-L09 will record
their actual time of an·ival and departure and any breaks using the designated
ALRC timesheet. These timesheets will be used for the recording of flextime.

20.6

An employee will not be required to work more than 10 hours on any one day and
will not be required to work more than five hours without a break of at least 30
minutes.

21.

Flextime Applicable to staff in categories APS l-APS 6, L01-L09

21.1

Flextime arrangements are provided for in the ALRC's Flextime and Time in Lieu
Policy.

21.2

It is expected that employees will complete their duties within ordinary hours.
However, where workloads temporarily increase or employees in the categories
APS 1 to APS 6, L01-L09 work additional hours within the ordinary hours
bandwidth to meet organisational requirements, such additional hours are accrued
as flextime.
11

Australian Law Refonn Commission

Enterprise Agreement 2016-19

21.3

A full-time employee can catTy over a maximum of20 hours credit or 7.35 hours
debit from one settlement period to the next. Flextime credits or debits for parttime employees will be on a pro rata basis.

21.4

Any flextime credit in excess of 20 hours will be lost unless approval to
accumulate additional hours has been received from the emp loyee's supervisor.
Any flextime debit in excess of 7.35 hours must be acquitted by utilising leave,
including leave without pay, unless an employee has approval from their
supervisor to accumulate additional debit hours.

21.5

Flextime credit will not be paid out on separation. Flextime debits will be
recovered from an employee's final pay.

22.

TOIL: Excess Hours for Senior and Executive Employees

22.1

Time off in Lieu arrangements are provided for in the ALRC's Flextime and Time
in Lieu Policy. Remuneration for Senior and Executive employees in the
categories EL1-EL2, SL01-SL010, PL01-PL03 incorporates a salary
component to compensate for the extra responsibility of seniority that may be
expected of them, including working reasonable additional hours beyond ordinary
hours for operational reasons.

22.2

Senior and Executive employees are permitted to take time off in lieu (TOIL) to
compensate for substantial hours worked in excess of ordinary hours subject to
prior approval of their supervisor.

22.3

TOIL is a limited entitlement and is not intended to compensate for additional
hours on a one for one basis. The President wiII determine the number of hours
that can compensate for excess hours worked, in consultation with the employee.

22.4

While access to TOIL is subject to the approval of the President and the Executive
Director, where substantial additional hours have been required to be worked, and
where workloads permit, reasonable requests will not be refused.

23.

Reporting Absences

23.1

An employee who is unable to attend work on a pat1icular day and who does not
have prior approval for the absence must directly notify the ALRC, either by
phone or email, no later than 1Oam and explain the general nature of the absence,
and the anticipated duration of the absence, unless exceptional circumstances
prevent such notification. In such exceptional instances employees will report to
the office as soon as is practical.

23.2

Where an employee is absent from duty without the express approval of the
President or Executive Director, or not in accordance with a term of this
Agreement, the absence wi ll be treated as an ' unauthorised absence' and will not
count as service for any purpose under this agreement, including remuneration and
leave accrual.

23.3

Any amounts paid to an employee in respect of an unauthorised absence are
overpayments and the ALRC will seek to recover those amounts in accordance
with the provisions of the Accountable Authority Instructions.

12

Australian Law Refonn Commission

Enterprise Agreement 20 16-19

23.4

All pay and benefits provided under this Agreement, including flexible working
arrangements, shall cease to be available until the employee resumes duty or is
granted leave for the absence.

24.

Individual Flexibility Arrangements

24.1

An employer and employee covered by this Agreement may agree to make an

individual flexibility arrangement to vary the effect of terms of the Agreement if:
a)

24.2

24.3

the arrangement deals with one or more of the following matters:
1.

arrangements about when work is performed;

11.

overtime rates;

111.

penalty rates;

IV.

allowances;

v.

remuneration; and/or

v1.

leave and leave loading; and

b)

the arrangement meets the genuine needs of the employer and employee in
relation to one or more of the matters mentioned in paragraph (a); and

c)

the anangement is genuinely agreed to by the employer and employee.

The employer must ensure that the te1ms of the individual flexibility a1rangement:
•

are about permitted matters under section 172 of the Fair Work Act 2009;

•

are not unlawful terms under section 194 of the Fair Work Act 2009; and

•

result in the employee being better off overall than the employee would be if
no arrangement was made.

The employer must ensure that the individual flexibility arrangement is in writing,
includes the name of the employer and employee, is signed by the employer and if the
employee is under 18 years of age, signed by a parent or guardian of the employee
and employee and includes details of:
•

the te1ms of the enterprise agreement that will be varied by the aiTangement;
and

•

how the anangement will vary the effect of the terms; and

•

how the employee will be better off overall in relation to the te1ms and
conditions of his or her employment as a result of the aiTangement; and

•

states the day on which the anangement commences.

24.4

The President must give the employee a copy of the individual flexibility arrangement
within 14 days after it is agreed to.

24.5

The President or employee may te1minate the individual flexibility arrangement by
giving no more than 28 days written notice to the other pa11y to the arrangement or, if
the employer and employee agree in writing, at any time.

13

Australian Law Refonn Commission

Enterprise Agreement 20 16- 19

25.

Requests for Flexible Working Arrangements

25.1

An employee may request a change in working arrangements and the right to request
flexible working arrangements is available to eligible employees in accordance with
Section 65 of the Fair Work Act 2009.

25.2

Any an·angement to work from home in lieu of the normal attendance in the officewhether on a temporary or ad hoc basis-must be agreed by the President or
Executive Director, prior to the work being undet1aken. In considering any such
request, the President or Executive Director may take into account the effect on
individual or team workloads and the ALRC 's operational requirements. Fut1her
infotmation is available in the ALRC Home Based Work Policy.

PartE: Leave Provisions

26.

Annual Leave

26.1

An employee is entitled to 20 days paid annual leave per year of service. Annual
leave accrues on a daily basis and accumulates from year to year and is credited on a
fot1nightly basis. Annual leave may be taken as it is credited.

26.2

If in a year an employee has worked a period or periods of pat1-time service, the
employee's annual leave cred its for each period of part-time service are to be
calculated on the basis of the hours of servi ce perf01med during that period.

26.3

An employee may take paid annual leave provided that:

26.4

(a)

the President or Executive Director has authorised the leave; and

(b)

the employee has a credit leave balance of at least the amount of leave he or
she proposes to take.

In deciding whether to authorise annual leave, the President or Executive Director is
entitled to take into account operational requirements but will not unreasonably:
(a)
(b)

26.5

26.6

refuse to authorise the taking of annual leave; or
revoke an authorisation.

An employee may, on application and approval by the President, take annual leave
in either of the following ways:
(a)

at full pay; or

(b)

at half pay, subj ect to operational requirements. When an employee takes
leave at half pay, the leave credits deducted will be half that of the total leave
period.

Any annual leave credits in excess of eight (8) weeks (40 days) are called excess
annual leave credits.
(a)

Where an employee has an accrued annual leave balance of 40 days or greater,
the employee and the President must agree on a strategy to reduce the
employee's accrued annual leave balance to 30 days or less within a 6 month
timeframe.

(b)

If an employee fails to take action to reduce excess annual leave credits, the
President may direct the employee to take up to 25% of their credited leave.
14

Australian Law Refonn Commission

Enterprise Agreement 20 16-19

(c)

The minimum notice required for such a direction to an employee is four
weeks.

(d)

In exceptional circumstances, an employee may request that the President
reconsiders a direction made in accordance with this clause.

26.7

If an employee's employment ends, and the employee ' s accumulated annual leave
credit is not transferable to their next employer within the APS, the employee is
entitled to payment of an amount equal to the value of the credit.

26.8

Leave to count as service. All approved paid leave and the first 30 calendar days
of any approved leave without pay in any year will count as service in any year
will count as service for the purposes of this Agreement. Leave without pay will
not count for service for the purposes of the Long Service Leave (Commonwealth
Employees) Act 1976, unless the President determines otherwise.

27.

Cashing out of Annual Leave

27.1

An employee may, with the approval of the President, cash out a p01tion of the
employee ' s annual leave credit, provided that the employee ' s remaining accrued
entitlement to annual leave, following cash out, is not less than 20 working days.
Each cashing out of a patticular amount of annual leave must be by a separate
agreement in writing between the President and the employee.

27.2

The maximum amount of annual leave credit that can be cashed out in one year is
10 days.

27.3

If an employee cashes out annual leave, the employee will be paid the full amount
that would have been paid to the employee had the employee taken the leave that
the employee has foregone .

2 7.4

The President will not approve requests to cash out leave in accordance with this
clause unless the employee has taken 15 days annual leave in the 12 months
immediately preceding the request to cash out leave.

28.

Purchased Annual Leave

28.1

Employees may, with the approval of the President, purchase up to 15 days
additional leave per year (in blocks of five days) with deductions from fortnightly
salary in equal instalments over the course of the year or a lesser period if agreed
with the employee.

28.2

In deciding whether to approve the purchase of annual leave, the President shall
take into account the timing of the proposed leave, the amount of leave to be taken,
and its impact on operational requirements of the ALRC .

28.3

All purchased leave accrues in accordance with salary instalments and must be
taken within 12 months of the date on which deductions from salary first
commenced.

28.4

Purchased leave will count as service for all purposes.

29.

Personal Leave/Carer's Leave

29.1

An ongoing full-time employee is entitled to 18 days cumulative personal/carer's
leave per year of service. Patt-time ongoing employees accrue personal leave on a
15

Australian Law Refonn Commission

Enterprise Agreement 20 16-19

pro rata basis. Upon engagem ent in the APS an employee h as 8 days
personal/carer's leave credited, and accrues an additional 10 days personal/carer' s
leave credit in the first year of service, accruing daily. An ongoing full-time
employee accrues 18 days cumulative personal leave credit for every year of
service.
29.2

A non-ongoing employee is entitled to 18 days per year accruing daily.

29 .3

If a non-ongoing employee is engaged for a period of less than 12 months, they
will receive a pro rata credit. A non-ongoing employee w ho has more than I year
of continuous service w ith the ALRC accrues 18 days cumulative p ersonal leave
credit for every year of service or a pro rata number of days for a part year.

29 .4

An employee 's unused paid personal leave accumulates from year to year, but
unused personal leave w ill not be paid out on separation.

29.5

Personal leave may be taken where the employee is ill or inj ured, or needs to
provide care or support to a me mber of the employee's immediate family or
household due to personal illness, injury or an unexpected em ergency affecting the
member, or in other sp ecial circumstances approved by the President. Leave must
not be taken for sp ecial c ircumstances to the extent that it results in less than 10
days' of an employee's credits per year being available for use for personal injury
or illness and caring as provided under the Fa ir Work Act.

29.6

An employee may take personal leave a t any time, subj ect to available credits and
w ith the approval of his or her supervisor. A n employee may not access paid
personal leave w hile on paid maternity, adoption, foster or parental leave.

29.7

An employee must provide supporting evidence acceptable to the P resident in the
following circumstances:

29.8

(a)

w hen the employee is absent on personal/carer' s leave for m ore than three
consecutive working days; or

(b)

w hen the employee has taken more than five days personal/carer's leave in a
calendar year without producing a ce1tificate; or

(c)

w hen the President believes, on reasonable grounds, that the employee's
absence is not consistent with the appropriate use of personal leave.

Supporting evidence includes:
•

a medical ce1tificate;

•

a statutory declaration, if it was not reasonably practicable for the employee
to obtain a medical ce1tificate; and/or

•

w ith the prior agreem ent or direction of the President, another fonn of
evidence.

29.9.

If the employee provides a statutory declaration as evidence, the statutory
declaration must set out why the employee is or was unable to attend work, and
w hy it was not reasonably practicable for them to obtain a medical ce1t ificate.

29. 10

If the employee does not provide the required evidence within a reasonable period,
the absence will be treated as unauthorised leave.

16

Australian Law Reform Commission

Enterprise Agreement 2016-19

29.11

Employees are entitled to 2 days unpaid carer' s leave and where an emp loyee's
entitlement to personal leave is exhausted, the President may approve additional
unpaid leave.

30.

Long Service Leave

30.1

An employee is eligible for long service leave in accordance with the Long Service
Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1976.

30.2

The minimum period for which long service leave will be granted is seven
calendar days at full pay, or 14 calendar days at half pay, per occasion. Long
service leave cannot be broken with other periods of leave, except as otherwise
provided by legislation.

31.

Maternity and Parental Leave

31.1

Pregnant employees or employees who have given birth are entitled to matemity
leave in accordance with the Maternity Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Act
1973 (Cth) (MLA) and the Fair Work Act. Eligible employees are entitled to up to
52 weeks of leave of which up to 12 weeks may be paid leave.

31.2

Eligible employees with an entitlement to paid leave under the ML Act will be
provided with an additional 2 weeks paid maternity leave to be taken continuous
with a period of paid maternity leave, provided by the ML Act.

31.3

Employees who adopt or petmanently foster a child, and who are the primary
caregiver for that child, are entitled to up to 52 weeks of parental leave. Up to 14
weeks of that leave will be paid leave, commencing from the time of placement of
the child, provided the employee satisfies the same qualifying service requirements
as those required to receive paid leave in accordance with the ML Act.

3 1.4

Employees are entitled to parental leave for adoption or permanent foster care
when that child:
a.

is under 16 years of age;

b.

has not, or will not have, lived continuously with the employee for a period
of 6 months or more as at the day (or expected day) of placement; and

c.

is not (otherwise than because of the adoption) a child of the employee or the
employee's spouse or partner.

31.5

Documentary evidence of approval for adoption or enduring parental
responsibilities under fotmal fostering an·angements must be submitted when
applying for parental leave for adoption or petmanent foster career purposes.

3 1.6

Employees who are eligible for paid matemity or parental leave may elect to have
the payment for that leave spread over a maximum of a maximum of 28 weeks, at
a rate not less than half normal salary. Where payment is spread over a longer
period, only 14 of the total weeks of leave will count as service.

31.7

On ending the initial period of up to 52 weeks of matemity or parental leave,
employees may request an extension of unpaid parental leave for a further period
of up to 52 weeks. The second period of unpaid leave is to commence immediately
following the initial leave period.
17

Australian Law Refonn Commission

Enterprise Agreement 20 16-1 9

31.9

Unpaid matemity or parental leave will not count as service for any purpose other
than unpaid leave taken during the fu·st 12 weeks.

31.10

M atemity and parental leave is inclusive of public holidays and will not be
extended because a public holiday (or Clu·istmas closedown) falls during a period
of paid or unpaid matemity or parental leave.

31.11

On ending matemity or parental leave, employees have the retum to work
guarantee and the right to request flexible working arrangements provided by the
Fair Work Act 2009.

32.

Supporting partner/other primary caregiver leave

32. 1

Employees who are not othetw ise entitled to paid matemity leave under the ML Act
or parental leave under this agreement are entitled to 2 weeks of paid leave on the
birth, adoption or permanent foster care placement of a child or their partner's child.

32.2

Paid parental leave must be taken at a time agreed between the employee and the
President and within 12 months of the bitth, adoption or fostering of the child.

32.3

Documentary evidence, for example a bi1t h ce1t ificate follow ing the birth of a
child, must be submitted when applying fo r suppmting pa1tner or other primary
caregiver leave.

32.4

Paid parental leave will count as service for all purposes.

32.5

An employee who is eligible for pa id parental leave is also eligible for up to 52
weeks of unpaid leave, inclusive of any periods of paid leave, commencing on the
date of the bi1t h of a child, or on the day on which the employee assumes
responsibility for an adopted or fostered child.

33.

Defence Reserve Service Leave

33. 1

An employee may be granted leave (with or without pay) to enable the employee
to fulfil Australian Defence Force (ADF) Reserve and Continuous Full Time
Service (CFTS) or Cadet Force obligations.

33.2

An employee is entitled to leave w ith pay, of up to four weeks during each
financial year, and an additional two weeks paid leave in the first year of ADF
Reserve Service, fo r the purpose of fulfilling service in the ADF Reserve.

33.3

With the exception of the additional two weeks in the first year of service, leave
can be accumulated and taken over a period of two years.

33.4

Defence Reserve leave counts as service for all purposes, except for unpaid leave
to undettake Continuous Full Time Service (CFTS) . Unpaid leave for the purpose
of CFTS counts as service for all purposes except annual leave accrual.

34.

Community Service Leave

34. 1

An employee who engages in an eligible community service activity is entitled to
leave, as per Division 8 of the Fair Work Act. An eligible community service
activity includes:
•

j ury service;

18

Australian Law Refonn Commission

Enterprise Agreement 2016-19

•

community service volunteers perfonning emergency services or management
duty (including leave for regular training, all emergency services responses,
reasonable recovery time and ceremonial duties); or

•

an activity prescribed under Regulations relating to Division 8 of Pat1 2-2 of
the Fair Work Act 2009.

34.2

Payment for jury service will be as per Division 8 clause 111 of the Fair Work Act
2009.

34.3

The ALRC may allow a maximum of 5 days paid leave per year for community service
volunteers performing duties as described above. Any further leave for these purposes
would be unpaid.

34.4

The employee must comply with the notice and evidence requirements under the Fair

Work Act.

35.

Compassionate Leave

35.1

An employee, other than a casual employee, is entitled to three days of paid
compassionate leave for each occasion when a member of his or her immediate
family or household is suffering from a serious or life-tlu·eatening personal injury
or illness or has died. For casual employees, compassionate leave is unpaid.

35.2

The President may request that the employee provide reasonable evidence of the
illness, injury or death.

36.

Study Leave

36.1

An ongoing employee who is undertaking f01mal study may be granted up to five
days unpaid leave per academic year. A pat1-time employee may be granted a pro
rata amount.

36.2

All study leave is discretionary and will be decided by the President. The President
is able to consider granting a further period of unpaid leave per academic year on
request, taking into consideration the operational requirements of the ALRC, and the
individual circumstances ofthe employee.

36.3

In deciding on whether to grant study leave, the President will take into account the
operational priorities and needs of the ALRC, the benefit of the study to the
employee's position and/or to the ALRC's work, the amount of time involved and
the professional development needs of the individual.

37.

Discretionary Miscellaneous Leave

3 7.1

The President may grant leave to an employee, either with or without pay, in
circumstances not provided for elsewhere in this Agreement for a purpose that the
President considers to be in the interests of the ALRC and having regard to
operational requirements.

37.2

The President may request that an employee provide reasonable evidence of the
need and/or desirability of the leave requested.

19

Australian Law Refonn Commission

Enterprise Agreement 2016-1 9

3 7.4

The President may approve up to 10 days ceremonial leave with pay in any one year
for employees of Aboriginal or TotTes Strait Islander descent. Ceremonial leave is in
addition to compassionate leave.

3 7. 3

A period of paid miscellaneous leave will count as service for all purposes. A period
of miscellaneous leave without pay w ill not count as service for any purpose other
than provided for by the Long Service Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1976.

3 7.4

Discretionary miscellaneous leave includes, but is not limited to, cultural leave for
Culturally and Linguistically Diverse employees. The President may decide that all
or part of a period of cultural leave is leave with pay or without pay.

38.

Portability of Leave

38. 1

Where an employee moves (including on promotion or for an agreed period) from
another agency where they were an ongoing APS employee, the employee' s unused
accrued annual leave and personal/carers leave (however described) will be
transferred, provided there is no break in continuity of service.

38.2

Where an employee is engaged as either an ongoing or non-ongoing AP S employee
immediately following a period of ongoing employment in the Parliamentary
Serv ice or the ACT Government Service, the employee's unu sed accrued annual
leave and P ersonal/carers leave (however described) will be recognised.

38.3

For the purposes of thi s clause:

38.4

•

' APS employee' has the same mean ing as in the Public Service Act 1999;

•

' Parl iamentary Service ' refers to employment under the Parliamentary
Service Act 1999.

Where a person is engaged as an ongoing employee, and immediately prior to the
engagement the person was employed as a non-ongoing APS employee, the
President may, at the employee 's request, recogni se any accrued Annual leave and
Personal/carers leave (however described), provided there is no break in continuity
of service. Any recognised annual leave excludes any accrued leave paid out on
termination of employment.

Part F: Allowances

39.

Travel

39. 1

When employees are required to travel as patt of their employment, the costs of
travel and hotel accommodation, if required, will be covered by the ALRC. Travel
allowances to cover the cost of meals and incidental expenses may also be paid.
Futther infonnation is available in the ALRC Travel Policy.

40.

First Aid

40. 1

An employee who possesses a current first aid certificate and has designated
responsibilities as a first aid officer at the ALRC will be paid an allowance of $15
per f01tnight.
20

Australian Law Reform Commission

Enterprise Agreement 2016-19

41.

Re-location Expenses

41.1

Where a successful candidate is offered ongoing employment at the ALRC, and
usually resides outside of the city in which the ALRC has its office, the President
may determine whether it is reasonable to offer an amount to assist the candidate to
re-locate to Sydney in order to take up the position.

41.2

The amount paid for re-location will not exceed $1,500 and will only be paid on
presentation of a valid tax invoice for the expenditure.

Part G: A Healthy Working Environment

42.

Health and Wellbeing

42.1

The ALRC will facilitate access to a confidential, professional counseling service
to help employees resolve personal or work-related problems that may be
disrupting their life at work or at home. This service will provide up to four free
counseling sessions per annum with the ALRC ' s approved provider.

42 .2

The ALRC will suppo11 the training of designated employees to undettake the
duties of first aid officer, fire warden, and occupational health and safety workplace
delegate.

42.3

The ALRC will provide annually, at no expense to employees and on a voluntary
basis, access to a flu vaccination.

42.4

The ALRC will provide to all employees an annual allowance of $ 150.00 to
reimburse for expenditure on approved health and wellbeing activities. This
allowance will be paid once per year at the time of the employee's annual
perfotmance appraisal and on presentation of a valid tax invoice.

Part H: Misconduct, Termination of Employment and Resignation

43.

Misconduct

43.1

Possible misconduct or breaches of the APS Code of Conduct will be dealt with as
per section 10 of the Public Service A ct. Further infotmation can be found in the
ALRC' s Procedures for Determining Breaches ofthe Code of Conduct.

43.2

Nothing in this Agreement prevents the President from terminating the employment
of an employee for serious misconduct, without the notice or payment in lieu
required by s 117 of the Fair Work Act.

44.

Review of Decisions to Terminate Employment

44.1

The sole and exhaustive rights and remedies of an employee in relation to
tem1ination of employment, either for misconduct, as a result of poor performance
as determined through the ALRC's PADS , or for another reason, are those that the
employee enjoys under:
21

Australian Law Reform Commission

Enterprise Agreement 2016-19

(a)

pt 3.2 of ch 3 and pt 6. 4 of ch 6 of the Fair Work Act;

(b)

other Commonwealth laws (including the Constitution); and

(c)

the common law.

45.

Resignation

45.1

Resignation must be communicated in writing to the President. A period of notice
of at least two weeks for APS l-APS 6 and of four weeks for LOI-L09, EL1EL2, SLO l - SL05 and PLO l- PL03 classifications, will apply. The President may
determine to pay out the period of notice.

Part 1: Redundancv and Redeployment

46.

Redundancy and redeployment

46. 1.

The procedures and entitlements for redundancy and redeployment apply to staff
employed as ongoing employees under the Public Service Act, with the exception of
an employee who is subj ect to a probation period.

46.2

The President may determine that the position held by an ongoing employee is
excess to requirements fo r any one of the fo llowing reasons:
(a)

the employee is one of a class of employees that comprises a greater number
of employees than is necessary for the efficient and economical working of the
ALRC; or

(b)

the services of the employee cannot be effectively used because of
technological, structural or other changes in the work methods of the ALRC or
changes in the nature, extent or organisation of the functions of the ALRC; or

(c)

the usual duties are to be perf01m ed at a different locality and the appointee is
not willing to perform duties at that locality.

46.3

Prior to detetmining that an employee is excess, the President will consult the
employee for a period of up to one month to consider redeployment opportunities
and the employee' s level of interest in voluntary redundancy. The employee may
choose to be accompanied by a person of hi s or her choice in these discussions.

46.4

The President may invite employees who are not potentially excess to express
interest in voluntary redundancy, where this would pe1mit the redeployment of an
employee who is potentially excess.

46.5

Where the position held by an ongoing employee is determined to be excess to
requirements, the President will advise the employee in writing and offer him or her
voluntary redundancy. The employee will be given 28 days to consider and respond
to the offer. Only one offer of voluntary redundancy will be made to the employee.

46.6

Where the employee agrees in writing to an offer of voluntary redundancy, the
President can approve the te1mination of the employee. The period of notice for
tenn ination of employment will be in accordance with s 117 of the Fair Work Act.
W here the ALRC directs, or the employee requests and the ALRC agrees, payment
may be made in lieu of all or patt of the notice period.

22

Australian Law Refonn Commission

Enterprise Agreement 2016-19

46.7

The severance benefit to be paid to an employee who has accepted voluntary
redundancy under s 29 of the Public Service Act will be a sum equal to two weeks
salary for each completed year of continuous ALRC/ APS service plus a pro rata
payment for completed months of service since the last full year of service. The
minimum sum payable is four weeks salary and the maximum payable is forty-eight
weeks salary, subject to any minimum entitlement the employee has under the
National Employment Standards (NES).

46.8

The severance benefit will be calculated on a pro rata basis for periods where the
employee has worked pa1t-time hours during the period of service.

46.9

For the purposes of calculating the severance benefit payment, salary will include:
(a)

the appointee ' s full-time salary, adjusted on a pro rata basis for periods of parttime service; and

(b)

any allowance that has been paid during periods of annual leave and on a
regular basis other than a reimbursement for expenses incuned.

46.10

An involuntary redundancy occurs where the employee declines or does not respond
to an offer of voluntary redundancy within the time permitted in clause 53.5 No
severance benefit will be payable. Instead, a retention period of 40 weeks for an
employee over 45 years of age or 28 weeks for any other employee will be taken to
commence from the date the employee was advised in writing that he or she was
excess to requirements .

46.11

If an employee is entitled to a redundancy payment in accordance with the National
Employment Standards, the relevant period under the above clause is reduced by the
number of weeks redundancy pay that the employee will be entitled to under the
NES on tennination, calculated as at the expiration of the retention period (as
adjusted by this clause).

46.12

The employee's employment will be involuntarily tetminated at the end of the
retention period unless, prior to the end of the retention period, the employee is
reassigned to duties at an equal or lower classification. Wherever practicable, the
notice of tennination will be concunent with the retention period .

46.13

The employee may be reassigned to duties at an equal or lower classification during
the retention period. Where the employee is assigned to a lower classification, the
employee will continue to be paid at his or her previous salary for the balance of the
retention petiod.

Part J: Resolution of Agreement Disputes and Consultation

47.

Resolution of Agreement Disputes

4 7.1

If a dispute relates to
a.

a matter arising under this Agreement or

b.

the National Employment Standards,

the following clauses set out procedures to settle the disputes.
47 .2

An employee who is a party to the dispute may appoint a representative for the
purposes of these procedures.
23

Australian Law Refonn Commission

Enterprise Agreement 2016-19

47.3

In the first instance, the patties to the dispute must try to resolve the dispute at the
workplace level, by discussions between the employee or employees and relevant
supervisors and/or management.

47.4

If discussions at the workplace level do not resolve the dispute, a party to the
dispute may refer the matter to Fair Work Commission.

47.5

The Fair Work Commission may deal with the dispute in 2 stages:
a.

the Fair Work Commission will first attempt to resolve the dispute as it
considers appropriate, including by mediation, conciliation, expressing an
opinion or making a recommendation; and

b.

if the Fair Work Commission is unable to resolve the dispute at the first stage,
the Fair Work Commission may then arbitrate the dispute; and make a
detennination that is binding on the patties.

Note: If Fair Work Commission arbitrates the dispute, it may also use the powers that are
available to it under the Act. A decision that Fair Work Commission makes when
arbitrating a dispute is a decision for the purpose of Div 3 of Part 5.1 of the Act. Therefore
an appeal may be made against the decision.
47.6

While the patties are trying to resolve the dispute using the procedures in this tetm:
a.

an employee must continue to perform his or her work as he or she would
normally unl ess he or she has a reasonable concern about an imminent risk to
his or her health or safety;

b.

an employee must comply with a direction given by the employer to perf01m
other available work at the same workplace, unl ess
1.

the work is not safe; or

n.

applicabl e occupational health and safety legislation would not permit
the work to be perf01med; or

111.

the work is not appropriate for the employee to perf01m; or

IV.

there are other reasonable grounds for the employee to refuse to comply
with the direction.

47.7

The patties to the dispute agree to be bound by a decision made by Fair Work
Commission in accordance with this tetm.

48.

Consultation

48.1

Po licies, procedures and guidelines which suppott the operation of this Agreement
may be made or varied from time to time. The ALRC will consult with employees
for 10 business days before any new policy, procedure or guideline, or variation to
existing policies, procedures or guidelines, is implemented. Policies, procedures
and guidelines apply in the form they are in as at the time of any relevant
action/decision and can be found on the ALRC file server.

48.2

The ALRC will maintain the ALRC Consultative Committee for the life of the
Agreement.

48.3

The Consultative Committee will include the President, Executive Director and
employee representatives nominated by staff representing both legal and corporate
areas of the ALRC.
24

Australian Law Reform Commission

Enterprise Agreement 2016-19

48.4

The Consultative Committee will meet at least two times each year, or as otherwise
agreed.

48.5

Fmther infonnation can be found in the Consultative Committee tetms of reference.

48.6

The ALRC will respect and facilitate an employee's right to representation in the
workplace. The role of workplace representatives, including union delegates and
employee representatives, will be respected and facilitated, in accordance with the
Fair Work Act.

49.

Consultation on Major Changes

49.1

This term applies if the President
a.

has made a definite decision to institute a major change to the ALRC ' s
production, program, organisational structure or technology that is likely to
have a significant effect on employees; or

b.

proposes to introduce a change to the ordinary hours of work of employees.

Major Change
49.2

For a major change referred to in paragraph 49.1,
a.

the President will notify the relevant employees of the decision to introduce
the major change; and

b.

the following clauses will apply.

49.3

The relevant employees may appoint a representative for the purposes of the
procedures in this tenn.

49.4

If:

49.5

a.

a relevant employee appoints, or relevant employees appoint, a representative
for the purposes of consultation; and

b.

the employee or employees advise the President of the identity of the
representative; the President must recognise the representative.

As soon as practicable after making the decision, the President must:
a.

b.

discuss with the relevant employees:
1.

the introduction of the change; and

11.

the effect the change is likely to have on the employees; and

111.

measures the employer is taking to avett or mitigate the adverse effect
of the change on the employees; and

for the purposes of the discussion, provide, m writing, to the relevant
employees:
1.

all relevant infmmation about the change including the nature of the
change

proposed; and
11.

infmmation about the expected effects of the change on the employees;

and
25

Australian Law Reform Commission

111.

49.6

Enterprise Agreement 201 6- 19

any other matters likely to affect the employees.

However, the President is not required to disclose confidential or commercially
sensitive
information to the relevant employees.

49.7

The President must give prompt and genuine consideration to matters raised about
the major change to the relevant employees.

49.8

If a term in this agreement applies to a maj or change to production, program,
organization, structure or technology in relation to the enterprise of the ALRC, the
requirements as set out in 49.2 (a), 49.3 and 49.5 are taken not to apply.

49.9

In this term, a major change is likely to have a significant effect on employees if it
results in:
a.

the termination of the employment of employees; or

b.

major change to the composition, operation or Size of the employer's
workforce or to the skills required of employees; or

c.

the elimination or diminution of job opp01tunities (including opp01tunities for
promotion or tenure); or

d.

the alteration of hours of work; or

e.

the need to retrain empl oyees; or

f.

the need to relocate employees to another workplace; or

g.

the restructuring of jobs.

Change to regular roster or ordinary hours of work
49.1 0

For a change referred to in 49 .I (b),
a.

the President must notify the relevant employees of the proposed change and

b.

clauses 49. 11 to49.15apply.

49.11

The relevant employees may appoint a representative for the purposes of the
procedures in this term.

49.12

If:

49.13

a.

If a relevant employee appoints, or relevant employees appoint, a
representative for the purposes of consultation and

b.

the employee or employees advise the President of the identity of the
representative, the President must recognise the representative.

As soon as practicable after proposing to introduce the change, the President must:
a.

discuss with the relevant employees the introduction of the change; and

b.

for the purposes of the discussion, provide to the relevant employees .
1.

all relevant inf01mation about the change, including the nature of the
change;

11.

infonnation about what the President reasonably believes will be the
effects of the change on the employees; and

26

Enterprise Agreement 2016-19

Australian Law Reform Commission

111.

c.

information about any other matters that the President reasonably
believes are likely to affect the employees; and

invite the relevant employees to give their views about the impact of the
change (including any impact in relation to their family or caring
responsibilities).

49.14

However, the President is not required to disclose confidential or commercially
sensitive information to the relevant employees.

49.15

The President must give prompt and genuine consideration to matters raised about
the major change by the relevant employees.

49.16

In this term: "relevant employees" means the employees who may be affected by a
Change refened to in 49 .1.

Part L: Acceptance of the Agreement
Signatures
We, the undersigned, agree to be bound by the terms and conditions set out in this Agreement.

For the Australian Law Reform Commission:

5 September 2016
President and CEO signature

Date

Professor Rosalind Frances Croucher AM, President

Full Name and Title

I
Signed:

~~Wt6

Date

/YI eJ /5!ct. J)o-nne.A ~
:Dep1Ai2J se~~ evYn~ 1}11d. fJtkuc I?cmr ~1 Dk
Full Name and Title:

Bargaining Representative:

27

Australian Law Refonn Commission

Signed:

Enterprise Agreement 2016-19

Date

Full Name and Title:

28

Enterprise Agreement 2016-19

Australian Law Refonn Commission

Part M: Schedules

Corporate
Structure

Pay
Point

Base as at 1
April2016

3% increase
on signing

1.5 %
increase on
12 month

1.5 %
increase on
24 month

Admin
Assistant

APS 1.1

1

$39,811

$41,005

$41,620

$42,245

APS 1.2

2

$41,006

$42,236

$42,870

$43,513

APS 1.3

3

$42,236

$43,503

$44,156

$44,818

APS 1.4

4

$43,504

$44,809

$45,481

$46,163

APS 1.5

5

$44,808

$46,152

$46,845

$47,547

APS 1.6

6

$46,152

$47,537

$48,250

$48,973

APS 1.7

7

$47,537

$48,963

$49,698

$50,443

APS 1.8

8

$48,963

$50,432

$51,188

$51,956

APS 2.1

9

$50,432

$51,945

$52,724

$53,515

APS 2.2

10

$51,945

$53,503

$54,306

$55,120

APS 2.3

11

$53,503

$55,108

$55,935

$56,774

APS 2.4

12

$55,107

$56,760

$57,612

$58,476

Office and Finance Coordinator

-

APS 3.1

13

$56,762

$58,465

$59,342

$60,232

APS 3.2

14

$58,465

$60,219

$61,122

$62,039

APS 3.3

15

$60,219

$62,026

$62,956

$63,900

APS 3.4

16

$62,025

$63,886

$64,844

$65,817

APS 4.1

17

$63,885

$65,802

$66,789

$67,790

APS 4.2

18

$65,803

$67,777

$68,794

$69,826

APS 4.3

19

$67,777

$69,810

$70,857

$71,920

APS 4.4

20

$69,810

$71,904

$72,983

$74,078

$71,905

$74,062

$75,173

$76,301

Project & Executive Assistan t

APS 5.1

21

APS 5.2

22

$74,063

$76,285

$77,429

$78,591

APS 5.3

23

$76,283

$78,571

$79,750

$80,946

APS 6.1

24

$78,573

$80,930

$82,144

$83,376

APS 6.2

25

$80,928

$83,356

$84,606

$85,875

APS 6.3

26

$83,356

$85,857

$87,145

$88,452

APS 6.4

27

$85,859

$88,435

$89,761

$91,108

APS 6.5

28

$88,432

$91,085

$92,451

$93,838

APS 6.6

29

$91,085

$93,818

$95,225

$96,653

EL 1.1

30

$95,640

$98,509

$99,987

$101,487

EL 1.2

31

$98,509

$101,464

$102,986

$104,531

Manager

29

Australian Law Refonn Commission

EL1.3

Enterprise Agreement 2016-19

32

$101,465

$104,509

$106,077

$107,668

EL1.4

33

$104,508

$107,643

$109,258

$110,897

EL1.5

34

$107,645

$110,874

$112,537

$114,226

EL1.6

35

$110,874

$114,200

$115,913

$117,652

EL2.1

36

$128,533

$132,389

$134,375

$136,390

EL2.2

37

$132,389

$136,361

$138,406

$140,482

EL2.3

38

$136,360

$140,451

$142,558

$144,696

1.5 %
increase on
12 month

1.5 %
increase on
24 month

Senior Manager

Base as at 1
April2016

Legal Structure

3% increase
on signing

Legal Officer

APS 5.1/L01

21

$71,905

$74,062

$75,173

$76,301

APS 5.2/L02

22

$74,063

$76,285

$77,429

$78,591

APS 5.3/L03

23

$76,283

$78,571

$79,750

$80,946

APS 6.1/L04

24

$78,573

$80,930

$82,144

$83,376

APS 6.2/L05

25

$80,928

$83,356

$84,606

$85,875

APS 6.3/L06

26

$83,356

$85,857

$87,145

$88,452

APS 6.4/L07

27

$85,859

$88,435

$89,761

$91,108

APS 6.5/L08

28

$88,432

$91,085

$92,451

$93,838

APS 6.6/L09

29

$91,085

$93,818

$95,225

$96,653

EL 1.1/S L01

30

$95,640

$98,509

$99,987

$101,487

EL 1.2/SL02

31

$98,509

$101,464

$102,986

$104,531

EL1.3/SL03

32

$101,465

$104,509

$106,077

$107,668

EL1.4/SL04

33

$104,508

$107,643

$109,258

$110,897

EL1.5/SL05

34

$107,645

$110,874

$112,537

$114,226

EL1.6/SL06

35

$110,874

$114,200

$115,913

$117,652

EL1.7/SL07

36

$114,200

$117,626

$119,390

$121,181

EL1.8/S L08

37

$117,626

$121,155

$122,972

$124,817

EL1.9/S L09

38

$121,155

$124,790

$126,661

$128,5 61

EL1.10/SL10

39

$124,789

$128,533

$130,461

$132,418

EL2.1/ PL01

40

$128,533

$132,389

$134,375

$136,390

EL2.2/PL02

41

$132,389

$136,361

$138,406

$140,482

EL2.3/PL03

42

$136,360

$140,451

$142,558

$144,696

Senior Legal Officer

Principal Legal Officer

30

AUSTRALIAN LAW REFORM COMMISSION

Enterprise Agreement 2016-19

ATTACHMENT I

Part L: Acceptance of the Agreement

Signatures

We, the undersigned, agree to be bound by the tenns and conditions set out in this Agreement.

For the Australian Law Reform Commission:

13 October 2016
President and CEO signature

Date

Rosalind Frances Croucher, ALRC President
Full Name and Authority/Position
c/- ALRC, level 40, MLC Tower, 19 Mmiin Place, Sydney, NSW 2001
Address

Bargaining Representative:

13 October 2016
Date

Melissa Donnelly, Deputy Secretary, Community and Public Sector Union, (CPSU)
Full Name and Authority/Position

191-199 Thomas St. Haymarket, NSW 2000
Address

27

Professor Rosalind Croucher AM
President
Attachment 2
AG2016/5611 — Application for approval of the Australian Law Reform Commissioner
Enterprise Agreement 2016–19
I, Rosalind Frances Croucher, as the President of the ALRC, on behalf of the Commonwealth, give
the following undertakings with respect to the ALRC Enterprise Agreement 2016–19:
1. The ALRC will not direct or require an employee at the APS 1 to 6 classification to
work outside the span of hours of 8.00 am to 6.00 pm Monday to Friday set out in the
APS Award 2015, except where this is required for the purpose of work-related travel.
2. Where an employee at the APS 1 to APS 6 classification is required to work outside the
span of hours set out in the APS Award 2015, for the purpose of work-related travel, the
employee will accumulate flex time, for the time worked outside the span of hours, at
the relevant rate or rates in respect of overtime in the APS Award 2015, that is, at 150%,
200% or 250% of ordinary time, depending on when the time is worked.
Signed:

Professor Rosalind Frances Croucher AM
c/- ALRC, Level 40, MLC Tower, 19 Martin Place, Sydney 2000
Dated: 13 October 2016

Australian Law Reform Commission
Level 40, MLC Centre, 19 Martin Place,
Sydney NSW 2000
Postal Address:

GPO Box 3708
Sydney NSW 2001

Tel (02) 8238 6333
Fax (02) 8238 6363
Web www.alrc.gov.au
Email rosalind.croucher@alrc.gov.au

