COMCARE
ENTERPRISE
AGREEMENT
2016–2019

TABLE OF CONTENTS
SECTION A—SCOPE

4

Title
Purpose
Coverage
Operation of Agreement
Delegations
Supporting guidelines and policies

4
4
4
4
4
4

SECTION B—WORKING TOGETHER

5

Working Together
Support Person
Consultation
Dispute settlement procedures

5
5
5
7

SECTION C— REMUNERATION

8

Pay increases
Salary
Supported salary payments for employees with a disability
Payment of salary
Salary packaging
Superannuation
Higher duties allowance arrangements
Travel
Loss and damage to personal effects
Overtime
Restriction allowance

SECTION D—LEAVE ARRANGEMENTS
Recognition and portability of leave
Annual leave
Purchased leave
Career interval leave
Personal/carer’s leave
Compassionate leave
Community service leave
Invalidity retirement
War service sick leave
Miscellaneous leave—with and without pay
Leave for Defence Reserve service
Maternity, adoption, foster carer’s and supporting partner leave
Public Holidays
Long service leave

8
8
9
10
10
10
10
11
12
12
13

14
14
14
15
15
15
17
17
17
18
18
18
19
20
21

2

SECTION E— PERFORMANCE DEVELOPMENT
Performance and development framework
Learning and development
Performance Improvement
Managing Underperformance

22
22
22
23
23

SECTION F—WORKING FLEXIBLY

24

Flexible working arrangements
Individual flexibility arrangement

24
26

SECTION G—HEALTH AND WELLBEING
Health and wellbeing reimbursement
Employee Assistance Program (EAP)
Vaccinations
Workplace responsibility allowance
Dealing with Local Accommodation Changes or Building Work

SECTION H—SEPARATION
Termination at employee’s initiative
Payments on Death

SECTION I—REDEPLOYMENT AND REDUNDANCY
Coverage
Retention periods
Voluntary redundancy

ATTACHMENT A—APS SALARY RATES
Legal Advisers
Graduate
Trainee APS (Administrative) Salary Rates
Cadet APS Salary Rates

27
27
27
27
27
27

28
28
28

29
29
30
31

34
35
36
36
37

ATTACHMENT B— SUPPORTED WAGE SYSTEM

38

DEFINITIONS

40

SIGNATURE PAGE

42

3

SECTION A—SCOPE
TITLE
1.

This Agreement shall be known as the Comcare Enterprise Agreement 2016–2019.

PURPOSE
2.

The purpose of this Agreement is to outline the terms and conditions of employment for employees covered by this
Agreement.

COVERAGE
3.

This Agreement applies to all non-SES employees within Comcare employed under the Public Service Act 1999.

4.

This Agreement covers:
a) the Chief Executive Officer of Comcare on behalf of the Commonwealth of Australia; and
b) all persons whose employment is, at any time when the Agreement is in operation, subject to the Agreement
(in accordance with clause 3).

OPERATION OF AGREEMENT
5.

This Agreement will come into operation seven days after it is approved by the Fair Work Commission. The nominal expiry
date is three years from the date of commencement.

DELEGATIONS
6.

The Chief Executive Officer may delegate any or all of his or her powers and functions under this Agreement and may do so
subject to conditions.

SUPPORTING GUIDELINES AND POLICIES
7.

The operation of this Agreement is supported by Comcare policies, procedures, and guidelines. Any policies, procedures
and guidelines referred to in this Agreement are not incorporated into, and do not form part of, this Agreement.

8.

If there is any inconsistency between the policies, procedures and guidelines and the terms of this Agreement, the express
terms of this Agreement will prevail.

9.

Comcare and its employees agree that these supporting policies, procedures and guidelines will be available to all
employees and will be updated as necessary following reasonable consultation

4

SECTION B—WORKING TOGETHER
WORKING TOGETHER
10.

Comcare will facilitate a consultative forum known as Working Together for the life of the Agreement.

11.

Further information can be found in Comcare’s Working Together Guidelines.

SUPPORT PERSON
12.

In any matter arising under this Agreement, an employee may have a person, of their choice, support them, and all
relevant persons will deal with any such support person in good faith.

CONSULTATION
13.

This term applies if Comcare:
a) has made a definite decision to introduce a major change to production, program, organisation, structure or
technology in relation to its enterprise that is likely to have a significant effect on the employees; or
b) proposes to introduce a change to the regular roster or ordinary hours of work of employees.

Major change
14.

For a major change referred to in sub-clause 13a):
a) Comcare must notify the relevant employees of the decision to introduce the major change; and
b) Sub-clauses 15 to 21 apply.

15.

The relevant employees may appoint a representative for the purposes of the procedures in this term.

16.

If:
a) a relevant employee appoints, or relevant employees appoint, a representative for the purposes of consultation; and
b) the employee or employees advise the employer of the identity of the representative;
Comcare must recognise the representative.

17.

As soon as practicable after making its decision, Comcare must:
a) discuss with the relevant employees:
i.

the introduction of the change; and

ii. the effect the change is likely to have on the employees; and
iii. measures Comcare is taking to avert or mitigate the adverse effect of the change on the employees; and
b) for the purposes of the discussion provide, in writing, to the relevant employees:
i.

all relevant information about the change including the nature of the change proposed; and

ii. information about the expected effects of the change on the employees; and
iii. any other matters likely to affect the employees.
18.

However, Comcare is not required to disclose confidential or commercially sensitive information to the relevant employees.

19.

Comcare must give prompt and genuine consideration to matters raised about the major change by the relevant
employees.

5

20.

If a term in this Agreement provides for a major change to production, program, organisation, structure or technology in
relation to the enterprise of the employer, the requirements set out in sub-clause 14a) and clauses 15 and 17 are taken
not to apply.

21.

In this term, a major change is likely to have a significant effect on employees if it results in:
a) the termination of the employment of employees; or
b) major change to the composition, operation or size of Comcare’s workforce or to the skills required of employees; or
c) the elimination or diminution of job opportunities (including opportunities for promotion or tenure); or
d) the alteration of hours of work; or
e) the need to retrain employees; or
f)

the need to relocate employees to another workplace; or

g) the restructuring of jobs.

Change to regular roster or ordinary hours of work
22.

For a change referred to in sub-clause 13b):
a) Comcare must notify the relevant employees of the proposed change; and
b) Sub-clauses 23 to 27 apply.

23.

The relevant employees may appoint a representative for the purposes of the procedures in this term.

24.

If:
a) a relevant employee appoints, or relevant employees appoint, a representative for the purposes of consultation; and
b) the employee or employees advise the employer of the identity of the representative;
Comcare must recognise the representative.

25.

As soon as practicable after proposing to introduce the change, Comcare must:
a) discuss with the relevant employees the introduction of the change; and
b) for the purposes of the discussion provide to the relevant employees:
i.

all relevant information about the change, including the nature of the change; and

ii. information about what Comcare reasonably believes will be the effects of the change on the employees; and
iii. information about any other matters that Comcare reasonably believes are likely to affect the employees; and
c) invite the relevant employees to give their views about the impact of the change (including any impact in relation to
their family or caring responsibilities).
26.

However, Comcare is not required to disclose confidential or commercially sensitive information to the relevant employees.

27.

Comcare must give prompt and genuine consideration to matters raised about the change by the relevant employees.

28.

In this term:
“relevant employees” means the employees who may be affected by a change referred to in clause 13.

6

DISPUTE SETTLEMENT PROCEDURES
29.

If a dispute relates to:
a) a matter arising under the agreement; or
b) the National Employment Standards;
this term sets out procedures to settle the dispute.

30.

An employee who is a party to the dispute may appoint a representative for the purposes of the procedures in this term.

31.

In the first instance, the parties to the dispute must try to resolve the dispute at the workplace level, by discussions between
the employee or employees and relevant supervisors and/or management.

32.

If discussions at the workplace level do not resolve the dispute, a party to the dispute may refer the matter to the Fair Work
Commission.

33.

The Fair Work Commission may deal with the dispute in two stages:
a) the Fair Work Commission will first attempt to resolve the dispute as it considers appropriate, including by mediation,
conciliation, expressing an opinion or making a recommendation; and
b) if the Fair Work Commission is unable to resolve the dispute at the first stage, the Fair Work Commission may then:
i.

arbitrate the dispute; and

ii. make a determination that is binding on the parties.
Note: If the Fair Work Commission arbitrates the dispute, it may also use the powers that are available to it under the Fair Work
Act. A decision that the Fair Work Commission makes when arbitrating a dispute is a decision for the purpose of Div 3 of Part
5.1 of the Fair Work Act. Therefore, an appeal may be made against the decision.
34.

While the parties are trying to resolve the dispute using the procedures in this term:
a) an employee must continue to perform his or her work as he or she would normally unless he or she has a reasonable
concern about an imminent risk to his or her health or safety; and
b) an employee must comply with a direction given by Comcare to perform other available work at the same workplace,
or at another workplace, unless:
i.

the work is not safe; or

ii. applicable occupational health and safety legislation would not permit the work to be performed; or
iii. the work is not appropriate for the employee to perform; or
iv. there are other reasonable grounds for the employee to refuse to comply with the direction.
35.

The parties to the dispute agree to be bound by a decision made by the Fair Work Commission in accordance with this
term.

7

SECTION C— REMUNERATION
PAY INCREASES
36.

With effect from commencement of this Agreement, all employees will receive a three per cent pay increase.

37.

With effect from 12 months after commencement of this Agreement, all employees will receive a two per cent pay increase.

38.

With effect from 24 months after commencement of this Agreement, all employees will receive a one per cent pay increase.

39.

The new salary rates resulting from the pay increases are set out at Attachment A.

SALARY
40.

An employee who commences work with Comcare will normally be paid a salary at the minimum point of the salary range
applicable to the classification of the job. However, the Chief Executive Officer may authorise payment of salary above the
minimum point in that salary range, having regard to the experience, qualifications and skills of the employee.

41.

Where, at the time of engagement, promotion or movement, an employee’s salary is set at an incorrect salary point within
the applicable salary scale, the Chief Executive Officer may determine (in writing) the payment of the employee’s salary at
the correct salary point.

Salary on reduction
42.

Where an employee agrees, in writing, to temporarily perform work at a lower classification level, the Chief Executive Officer
may determine, in writing, that the employee shall be paid a rate of salary applicable to the lower classification for the
period specified.

43.

Where an employee agrees, in writing, to an ongoing reduction to a lower classification, salary will be determined by
the Chief Executive Officer. The appropriate salary point will be determined based on all service at or above the lower
classification level.

Loading for casual employees
44.

A person who is employed as a casual employee shall be paid 25 per cent loading in lieu of public holidays on which the
employee is not rostered to work and all leave entitlements except for:
a) two days unpaid carer’s leave
b) three days unpaid compassionate leave
c) unpaid parental leave subject to the conditions under the Fair Work Act
d) long service leave.

Salary maintenance
45.

At the discretion of the Chief Executive Officer, a person moving to Comcare whose salary in his or her previous APS
agency exceeds the current maximum of the relevant classification level in this Agreement, may be maintained on their
current salary until such time as his or her salary is absorbed by Comcare pay increases.

8

Salary advancement
46.

An employee will advance by one point within his or her classification level from 1 August in that year, where:
a) the employee is not already at the highest pay point for his or her classification level; and
b) the employee has completed all of the employee requirements of the Performance and Development Framework (PDF);
and
c) the employee has performed duties at the employee’s substantive classification or above, within Comcare, for an
aggregate of six months or more, or a shorter period determined by the Chief Executive Officer on a case by case
basis, within the PDF cycle ending 30 June in that year; and
d) the employee achieved a minimum of a satisfactory performance rating at the end of the PDF cycle.

47.

Subject to the approval of the Chief Executive Officer, where an employee’s work performance and conduct has been
assessed at the highest rating of the PDF, the employee will advance by two pay points from 1 August in that year, subject
to the employee satisfying the other eligibility criteria set out in clause 46.

48.

Where an employee received an unsatisfactory rating at the end of the PDF cycle ending 30 June in that year, and the
Chief Executive Officer determines that the employee has subsequently attained and sustained a satisfactory standard of
performance, the employee would from that date, be eligible for salary advancement in accordance with clause 46.

Graduates
49.

Comcare Graduates will commence within the Graduate Broadband. The salary will be set by the Chief Executive Officer
having regard to the experience, qualifications, skills and pre-promotion salary of the employee.

50.

On successful completion of the Graduate Program the Graduate will be advanced to the APS4 classification. The salary
of these employees will be the base point of the APS4 classification level unless the Chief Executive Officer determines
otherwise.

Trainee APS (Administrative) and Cadet APS
51.

Employees recruited as Trainee APS (Administrative) will be paid in accordance with the tables in Attachment A.

52.

Upon successful completion of their training requirements, trainees will be allocated the classification of APS1 and paid at
the minimum salary point for that classification.

53.

Employees recruited as Cadet APS will be paid in accordance with the tables in Attachment A. A book and equipment
allowance will be payable at the start of the academic year and at the commencement of the second semester. A full time
study allowance will be paid during periods of study leave without pay; this is in addition to any payment for time worked
during the academic year. A Cadet APS employee will be advanced to the APS3 classification and paid at the minimum
salary point for that classification once their training has been satisfactorily completed.

SUPPORTED SALARY PAYMENTS FOR EMPLOYEES WITH A DISABILITY
54.

Supported wage rates as set out in Attachment B will apply to an employee with a disability who is eligible for
consideration under the Supported Wage System.

9

PAYMENT OF SALARY
55.

The fortnightly rate of pay will be based on the following formula:
Fortnightly pay = Annual salary x 12

		
56.

313

Employees will have their fortnightly salary paid in arrears by electronic funds transfer into an eligible financial institution
account of their choice.

SALARY PACKAGING
57.

An employee may choose to sacrifice part of his or her salary for non-monetary benefits.

58.

Any fringe benefits tax and administrative costs incurred as a result of the use of a salary packaging arrangement will be
met by the employee. An employee who participates in a salary sacrifice arrangement will have his or her salary for all
other purposes calculated as if the salary sacrifice arrangement had not been entered into.

SUPERANNUATION
59.

The default fund for Comcare is the Public Sector Superannuation Accumulation Plan (PSSap). The employer contribution
for PSSap will be based on the employee’s fortnightly contribution salary. The amount of PSSap employer contribution will
be 15.4 per cent.

60.

An employee may choose any approved superannuation fund as long as the fund can accept employer contributions
by electronic funds transfer using a file generated through the Comcare payroll system. If an employee chooses a
superannuation fund other than PSSap, the amount of the employer contribution will be equivalent to that applying to the
PSSap. Any fees associated with electronic funds transfer will be borne by Comcare.

61.

For employees who take paid or unpaid parental leave (which includes maternity, maternal, adoption, foster carer’s
and supporting partner leave), employer contributions will be made for a period equal to a maximum of 52 weeks, in
accordance with the rules of the appropriate superannuation scheme.

HIGHER DUTIES ALLOWANCE ARRANGEMENTS
62.

Where an employee is assigned, in writing, to temporarily perform duties of a higher classification higher duties allowance
will be paid. This would normally be paid at the base rate of the higher classification.

63.

The Chief Executive Officer may direct that the employee be paid a salary at a pay point above the base rate on the basis of
the employee’s relevant skills and experience, and previous periods of temporary performance.

Recognition of service for HDA purposes
64.

An employee will qualify for pay point advancement at a higher classification subject to the salary advancement rules,
clauses 46-48. Where an employee has attained a higher pay point in accordance with clause 63, the employee will
retain that pay point for future duties at the higher classification level.

Recognition of HDA for pay point allocation on promotion
65.

Subject to the service being recognised for higher duties allowance purposes in accordance with clause 64, an employee
who is promoted to a new classification level will have included, for the purpose of establishing eligibility for advancement
to the next higher pay point in the employee’s new classification, any previous period during which the employee was
directed, in writing, to perform duties of that higher (or a higher) classification temporarily, or its equivalent.

66.

Further information can be found in Comcare’s Remuneration Guidelines.
10

TRAVEL
67.

Comcare’s arrangements for domestic and overseas travel on official duty are designed to ensure that employees are not
out of pocket for reasonable costs incurred for accommodation, meals and incidentals while travelling for work purposes.

68.

The flexible working arrangements provisions of this Agreement will be used for work related travel. Overtime entitlements
will not apply to travel undertaken within the bandwidth specified in clause 211. Overtime payments will only be paid
where an employee is directed to travel outside the bandwidth.

69.

Further information can be found in the Comcare Travel Policy.

Domestic travelling arrangements and allowances
70.

Where an employee is required to travel within Australia for work purposes and stay away from home overnight,
reasonable costs incurred by the employee for accommodation, meals, transport and minor expenditure will be paid or
reimbursed by Comcare.

71.

The Chief Executive Officer may, from time to time, determine maximum amounts of expenditure that are considered to be
reasonable for different locations within Australia.

International travelling arrangements and allowances
72.

Where an employee is required to travel overseas on official business, the employee is entitled to use business class air
travel (or recognised equivalent). Where the journey involves travelling time of more than 12 hours, the employee will be
entitled to a rest period not exceeding:
a) 48 hours in respect of travel to Europe, the Middle East, Africa, the Americas or the West Indies; or
b) 24 hours in any other case.

73.

Where an employee becomes ill while travelling overseas on official business, the costs of treatment will be met by
Comcare subject to the provision of satisfactory evidence of illness. Further information can be found in the Comcare
Travel Policy.

Reimbursement of fares
74.

Where an employee becomes critically or dangerously ill while he or she is travelling on official business and a member of
the employee’s immediate family travels to visit the critically or dangerously ill employee, Comcare will where requested by
the employee and subject to the provision of satisfactory evidence of illness, reimburse the employee an amount equal to
the reasonable travel costs incurred by the relative.

Child and family care costs
75.

Where an employee is directed to travel away from his or her normal location for business purposes, Comcare will
reimburse, upon production of receipts, the reasonable expenses arising from additional child or other domestic care
arrangements made necessary as a result of this travel.

Motor vehicle allowance
76.

Where the Chief Executive Officer authorises an employee to use a private car owned or hired by the employee at his or
her own expense for official purposes, the employee will be entitled to receive a motor vehicle allowance of 75 cents per
kilometer, capped at the cost of the lowest practical fare of the day of travel.

11

Relocation assistance
77.

Where an employee is required to work in a different geographic location for a period of three weeks (i.e. 21 days) or less,
the provisions of clauses 70 to 76 will apply.

78.

Where an employee is required to work in a different geographic location for a period in excess of three weeks from
the day on which he or she commences work at the new location, the Chief Executive Officer will determine a package
of assistance, following discussion with the employee, to meet reasonable additional costs incurred as a result of the
employee being relocated.

LOSS AND DAMAGE TO PERSONAL EFFECTS
79.

The Chief Executive Officer may reimburse an employee for loss or damage to clothing or personal effects that are incurred
in the course of his or her work.

OVERTIME
80.

The flexible working hours provisions of this Agreement will normally be used to meet operational requirements within the
bandwidth specified in clause 211.

81.

An Executive Level employee is not eligible for overtime unless this is approved by the Chief Executive Officer.

82.

Overtime is only payable for work performed at the direction of the Chief Executive Officer outside the business hours
specified at clause 205.

83.

For part-time employees overtime is payable for work performed at the direction of management in excess of the
employee’s agreed or specified hours of work.

84.

Overtime will be paid at the following rates:
>

>

Monday to Saturday
–

time and one half for the first three hours

–

double time after the first three hours

Public holidays
–

>

Sunday
–

85.

double time and one half which includes any payment for the employee’s ordinary hours on the public holiday
double time.

At an employee’s request, and with the agreement of the employee’s manager, overtime entitlements can be taken as time
off in lieu of an overtime payment. Time off in lieu will be calculated based on the overtime rates at clause 84 and will be
recorded in accordance with clauses 207 and 208.

Child and family care costs incurred by overtime
86.

Where an employee is directed to work overtime with less than 24 hours’ notice, Comcare will reimburse reasonable
expenses arising from additional child or other domestic care arrangements made necessary as a result of this overtime.

Rest relief after overtime
87.

Where an employee works overtime he or she will be entitled to an eight hour break plus reasonable travelling time before
recommencing work without incurring any loss of pay. Where this break is not possible due to operational requirements,
the employee will be paid overtime at the rate of double time for all work until the employee has had an eight hour break
from work.

12

Emergency overtime
88.

Where an employee is called into the workplace or another location to meet an emergency outside the bandwidth of hours
specified in this Agreement, overtime will be paid at double time or double time and one half on public holidays and will
include any time necessarily spent in travelling to and from the work site.

Minimum payments for overtime requiring a return to duty
89.

Where an employee is required to perform overtime which is not continuous with his or her normal hours of duty, the
minimum overtime payment for each attendance for overtime duty will be four hours. This provision does not apply to
overtime that is in association with payment of restriction allowance.

RESTRICTION ALLOWANCE
90.

Where the Chief Executive Officer directs an employee to be contactable and available to work for a specified period outside
the span of hours 8:30am to 5:00pm, the employee will be paid a Restriction Allowance at the rates set out in clause 92.

91.

Where the Chief Executive Officer directs an Executive Level employee to be contactable and available to work for a
specified period outside the span of hours 8:30 am to 5.00pm, the Executive Level employee will be paid a restriction
allowance at the rates set out in clause 92 calculated at the maximum pay point of the APS6 level.

92.

Payment will be based on a rate of:
a) 7.5 per cent of the employee’s hourly rate of salary for each hour restricted Monday to Friday
b) 10 per cent of his or her hourly rate of salary for each hour restricted on weekends
c) 15 per cent of his or her hourly rate of salary for each hour restricted on public holidays.

93.

An employee is not paid restriction allowance during a period in which they are in receipt of overtime payment.

94.

Notwithstanding anything else in this Agreement, the minimum overtime for an employee who would otherwise be paid a
restriction allowance but for the overtime is:
a) one hour at the overtime rates set out in clause 84 where the employee is not required to attend the workplace
b) three hours at the overtime rates set out in clause 84 where the employee is required to attend the workplace or
another location.

95.

Further information can be found in Comcare’s Restriction Guidelines.

13

SECTION D—LEAVE ARRANGEMENTS
RECOGNITION AND PORTABILITY OF LEAVE
96.

Where an employee joins Comcare from an employer staffed under the Public Service Act, the Parliamentary Service
Act 1999 or from the ACT Government Service, accrued annual leave and personal/carer’s leave (however described) will
be transferred or recognised, provided there is no break in continuity of service. An employee who on commencement
would have a personal/carer’s leave credit less than 10 days through this provision will have their personal/carer’s leave
balance adjusted to 10 days.

97.

Prior service with organisations where the employee was previously employed under the Public Service Act 1999, the
Parliamentary Service Act 1999, or from the ACT Government Service where there has been a break in service, may be
recognised for personal leave purposes if the break in service is not more than two calendar months.

ANNUAL LEAVE
98.

A full-time employee is entitled to 20 working days paid annual leave for each completed year of service, accruing daily
and credited daily.

99.

Pro-rata adjustments to annual leave credits will be made for part-time employees and for periods of leave without pay
which do not count as service.

100. The taking of annual leave is subject to approval of the Chief Executive Officer, and the employee having available credits.
Approval of the leave will not be unreasonably withheld.
101. An employee who receives compensation under the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988 (SRC Act) for more
than 45 weeks accrues annual leave credits on a pro-rata basis based on the hours worked.

Half pay annual leave
102. The Chief Executive Officer may approve an employee request for annual leave at half pay noting that annual leave credits
will only be deducted at half the duration.

Direction to take annual leave
103. Where an employee has more than eight weeks (or the pro-rata equivalent for a part-time employee) of annual leave
credits, the Chief Executive Officer may require the employee to take a period of annual leave of up to one quarter of the
leave credits held at that time. Where the employee and the Chief Executive Officer are unable to agree on the timing of
the leave to be taken, the Chief Executive Officer may specify when the leave is to be taken as long as the employee is
provided with at least four weeks’ notice.

Annual leave cash out
104. An employee may cash out an amount of annual leave provided that they have taken at least 15 days annual leave in the
previous 12 months and the cashing out would not result in the employee’s remaining accrued entitlement to annual leave
being less than four weeks. Each election to cash out leave must be made in a written agreement between the employer
and employee.
105. Where an employee cashes out accrued annual leave they must be paid the full amount that would have been payable to
the employee had the employee taken the leave.

14

Cancellation of annual leave
106. The Chief Executive Officer may cancel a period of annual leave before or after it has commenced, but will not
unreasonably do so.
107. Where an employee has reasonably incurred costs as a result of the Chief Executive Officer cancelling a period of annual
leave that are not otherwise recoverable, the employee will be reimbursed those costs.

Payment on cessation of employment
108. An employee will be paid the value of any unused annual leave held by the employee at cessation of employment except
where the leave is transferred to another APS, Parliamentary or ACT Government agency.

PURCHASED LEAVE
109. The Chief Executive Officer may approve a request for an employee to purchase up to four weeks additional leave per year.
110. Employees who elect to purchase leave will have an amount deducted from their annual salary, equal to the value of the
leave which will be reflected in their fortnightly salary.
111. Purchased leave counts as service for all purposes. The employee’s salary for superannuation purposes continues to be
their full-time salary.
112. A request to purchase leave will not be approved if an employee has in excess of 40 days accumulated annual leave.
113. Purchased leave must be used during a 12 month period starting from the commencement of approval to purchase
additional leave.

CAREER INTERVAL LEAVE
114. At the approval of the Chief Executive Officer, an employee may allocate 20 per cent of their annual salary, over four years,
to a personal Career Interval Leave fund. After four years, the employee will be granted one year’s paid absence at the rate
of 80 per cent of normal salary.
115. Whether, or not, such leave counts as service and other conditions imposed on the leave is dependent on the purpose for
which the leave is used, i.e. for personal sabbatical or professional development sabbatical.
116. Further information can be found in Comcare’s Career Interval Leave Guidelines.

PERSONAL/CARER’S LEAVE
117. Personal/carer’s leave is cumulative but will not be paid out on separation. Personal/carer’s leave counts as service for all
purposes and is credited in advance of the accrual period.

15

Personal/carer’s leave credits
118. Ongoing employees who have not retained any personal/carer’s leave credits under clauses 96 or 97 are entitled to a
credit of 20 paid days (or the part time equivalent) personal/carer’s leave on commencement and 20 days annually
thereafter credited annually on their service anniversary date.
119. Where an ongoing employee has retained personal/carer’s leave credits under clauses 96 or 97, the employee is credited
with 20 days personal/carer’s leave credits 12 months after they last received personal/carer’s leave credits with the
employee’s previous employer and then an additional 20 days credits annually.
120. A non-ongoing employee will, during the first 12 months of service, accrue two days personal/carer’s leave credit on
commencement, and one and a half days per month of employment after that. This leave accrues progressively and
is credited monthly at the beginning of each month. After 12 months of continuous service, the provisions for ongoing
employees will apply.
121. An employee who receives compensation under the Safety Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988 for more than 45
weeks accrues personal/carer’s leave credits on a pro-rata basis based on the hours worked.
122. Where during an accrual period an employee has been absent, on leave without pay which does not count as service, for
more than 30 calendar days, the employee’s next accrual is deferred by one day for each day’s absence inclusive of the
initial 30 days.

Access to personal/carer’s leave
123. Paid personal/carer’s leave shall be available to an employee when he or she is absent:
(i) due to personal illness or injury
(ii) for the purposes of providing care or support to a member of the employee’s immediate family, or a member of the
employee’s household, who requires care or support because of
(a) a personal illness, or injury, of the member
(b) an unexpected emergency affecting the member
124. The taking of all personal/carer’s leave is subject to approval of the Chief Executive Officer. An employee must advise his or
her manager as soon as reasonably practicable of his or her absence or his or her intention to be absent.
125. No more than two consecutive days of personal/carer’s leave may be taken without appropriate evidence.
126. The maximum number of days of personal/carer’s leave that may be taken without evidence of illness or injury between
annual credits of personal/carer’s leave is seven days.
127. Where reasonable grounds exist, the Chief Executive Officer may at any time require that an employee provide evidence of
illness or injury for any period of personal/carer’s leave. Reasonable grounds may include where a pattern of absence is
identified or further evidence or information is needed on the circumstances underlying the taking of personal /carer’s leave.

Anticipation of personal/carer’s leave credit
128. If an ongoing employee or non-ongoing employee with 12 months’ service has exhausted his or her personal/carer’s leave
credits, the Chief Executive Officer may allow the employee to anticipate and deduct from up to 10 days of the following
year’s personal/carer’s leave credits.

Personal/carer’s leave without pay
129. The Chief Executive Officer may grant personal/carer’s leave without pay to an employee in other circumstances where the
employee has no paid personal/carer’s leave credits available.

16

Maximum continuous personal/carer’s leave
130. There is no limit to the maximum continuous amount of personal/carer’s leave which may be granted subject to available
credits, acceptable evidence and, if required, the opinion of a medical practitioner nominated by Comcare.
131. A period of leave without pay granted in accordance with clause 129 does not count as service for any purpose, except
long service leave.

COMPASSIONATE LEAVE
132. An employee is entitled to per occasion:
(i) two days paid compassionate leave to spend time with an immediate family or household member who is suffering
from a life threatening illness or injury; and
(ii) three days paid compassionate leave following the death of an immediate family or household member.

COMMUNITY SERVICE LEAVE
133. An employee is entitled to leave for the purposes of engaging in eligible community service activities including jury service
and voluntary emergency management activities as defined in the Fair Work Act 2009 (s109).
134. Employees who are members of a state emergency service, firefighting service, search and rescue unit or volunteer
organisation that responds to an emergency call by an appropriate authority are able to access paid leave for that purpose
including rest and recuperation time after such duty. Employees may be required to provide supporting documentation.
Leave with pay will be granted for any period of jury service.
135. Employees will be entitled to unpaid leave to undertake emergency service duties for purposes of training and ceremonial
duties.
136. Employees must provide reasonable notice and may be required to provide supporting documentation.

Employee access to personal/carers, compassionate or community service
leave while on annual leave or long service leave.
137. An employee may apply for paid leave for personal/carer’s, compassionate or community service purposes for any period
while on annual leave or long service leave. Subject to the provision of appropriate documentary evidence, this leave may
be granted to the employee. A reduction of annual leave or long service leave credit for the employee for a period of the
personal/carer’s, compassionate or community service leave granted under this clause will be re-credited.

INVALIDITY RETIREMENT
138. An employee will not, without the employee’s consent, be retired on invalidity grounds before the employee’s personal/
carer’s leave credit is exhausted except as otherwise provided by legislation.
139. If a person, after retirement on invalidity grounds, is re-engaged because of action taken under section 75 of the
Superannuation Act 1976, the person will be credited on re-engagement with the personal/carer’s leave at his or her credit
immediately before the termination of his or her employment.

17

WAR SERVICE SICK LEAVE
140. Employees may be eligible to be granted war service sick leave while unfit for duty because of a war or Defence caused
condition.
141. A war-caused condition means an injury or disease of an employee that has been determined under the relevant
legislation to be war-caused or Defence-caused.
142. Eligible employees will accrue a special credit of nine weeks on commencement in the APS and an annual credit of three
weeks for each year of APS service. Unused credits will accumulate to a maximum of nine weeks.
143. Further information can be found in Comcare’s Leave Guidelines.

MISCELLANEOUS LEAVE—WITH AND WITHOUT PAY
144. An employee may access miscellaneous leave with pay for:
a) Up to two days per calendar year to take part in activities associated with their culture, religion or ethnicity;
b) Up to two days per calendar year to undertake volunteer work with a registered community organisation or school.
145. In addition to the circumstances described in clause 144, miscellaneous leave may be granted as determined by the Chief
Executive Officer:
a) for the period requested or for another period
b) with or without pay
c) if the leave is without pay, to count as service or not count as service
d) subject to conditions.

NAIDOC Week leave
146. Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander employees are entitled to five days paid miscellaneous leave each year to participate
in NAIDOC Week activities or other cultural or ceremonial events.
147. Further information can be found in Comcare’s Leave Guidelines.

LEAVE FOR DEFENCE RESERVE SERVICE
148. An employee may be granted leave (with or without pay) to enable the employee to fulfill Australian Defence Force (ADF)
Reserve and Continuous Full Time Service (CFTS) or Cadet Force obligations.
149. An employee is entitled to Defence Reserve Leave with pay, of up to four weeks during each financial year, and an
additional two weeks paid leave in the first year of ADF Reserve Service, for the purpose of fulfilling service in the ADF
Reserve.
150. With the exception of the additional two weeks in the first year of service, leave can be accumulated and taken over a
period of two years.
151. Defence Reserve Leave counts as service for all purposes, except for unpaid leave to undertake CFTS. Unpaid leave for the
purpose of CFTS counts as service for all purposes except annual leave accrual.
152. Irrespective of the preceding provisions, employees who are members of the Defence Reserve may also apply for annual
leave, long service leave or flex leave for Defence Reserve purposes.

18

MATERNITY, ADOPTION, FOSTER CARER’S AND SUPPORTING
PARTNER LEAVE
Maternity and maternal leave
153. Eligible employees can access maternity leave in accordance with the Maternity Leave (Commonwealth Employees)
Act 1973 (Maternity Leave Act).
154. An employee who is entitled to paid leave under the Maternity Leave Act is also entitled to two weeks of paid maternal
leave, to be taken immediately following the first 12 weeks of maternity leave.

Adoption leave
155. An employee is entitled to up to 14 weeks paid adoption leave where:
a) the employee has at least 12 months continuous service in the APS; and
b) the employee is the primary caregiver for the adopted child; and
c) the child has not lived with the employee for a continuous period of six months or more prior to the day of placement,
or the proposed day of placement, of the child; and
d) the child is not a child or step child of the employee or the employee’s partner, unless that child has not been in the
custody and care of the employee or the employee’s partner for a significant period; and
e) documentary evidence of approval for adoption must be submitted when applying for leave.
156. Adoption leave is available from one week prior to the date of placement of a child and must be taken within eight weeks of
the child being adopted. Adoption leave with pay counts as service for all purposes.
157. Further information can be found in Comcare’s Leave Guidelines.

Foster carer’s leave
158. The provisions of clause 155 and 156 will also apply to long term (more than 12 months) formal fostering arrangements.

Access to maternity, adoption, and foster carer’s leave
159. Employees who are eligible for paid maternity, maternal, adoption, and foster carer’s leave may elect to have the payment
spread over a period of up to 28 weeks at half normal salary. Where payment is spread over a greater period, only the first
14 weeks of the leave period will count as service.
160. An employee is unable to access personal leave while on these types of leave.
161. Where one of these types of leave is taken over a period that includes public holidays or Christmas shutdown, the leave is
inclusive of those days. The leave will not be extended by the equivalent amount of those days.
162. Where an employee returns to work after a period of maternity, maternal, parental, adoption or foster carer’s leave, the
employee will be assigned to the duties previously performed or to alternative duties where appropriate to the employee’s
skills and classification.
163. In accordance with the FW Act, an employee returning to work from parental leave types, may request flexible working
arrangements for the care of a child who is of school age or younger.
164. Where an employee returning from parental leave types, and who is the primary caregiver of the child, requests to work
part time hours, the request will not be refused up until the child has reached school age. This provision is subject to a
minimum of 15 hours worked per week following a transitional period of up to one month to be negotiated between the
employee and their manager.
165. Where the returning employee seeks part time employment, the employee’s previous duties must be considered for
conversion initially.

19

Supporting partner leave
166. An employee whose partner gives birth, adopts or fosters a child will be entitled to two weeks of full pay supporting partner
leave immediately following the birth, adoption or fostering of a child.
167. Employees who are eligible for paid supporting partner leave may elect to have the payment spread over a period of four
weeks at half normal salary.
168. Paid supporting partner leave counts as service for all purposes.
169. Documentary evidence must be provided when applying for supporting partner leave.

Unpaid parental leave
170. To enable an employee to care for a new born child, or a newly adopted or newly fostered child under sixteen years of age,
an employee is entitled to up to 52 weeks of unpaid parental leave. An employee who takes unpaid parental leave may
request an extension of unpaid parental leave for a further period of up to 12 months immediately following the end of the
available parental leave period (in accordance with section 76 of the Fair Work Act 2009).

PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
171. Employees are entitled to the following public holidays:
i.

1 January, New Year’s Day

ii. 26 January, Australia Day
iii. Good Friday and the following Monday
iv. 25 April, Anzac Day
v.

In each state, the day observed to celebrate the anniversary of the Sovereign

vi. 25 December, Christmas Day
vii. 26 December, Boxing Day
viii. any other day as declared by or under a law of the state or territory to be observed generally within that state or
territory, or a region of the state or territory, as a public holiday by people who work in that state or territory or that
region.
172. If under a state or territory law, a day or part day is substituted for one of the public holidays listed above, then the
substituted day or part day is that public holiday.
173. The Chief Executive Officer and an employee may agree on the substitution of a day or part day that would otherwise be a
public holiday, having regard to operational requirements.
174. An employee, who is absent on a day or part-day that is a public holiday in the place where an employee is based for
work purposes, is entitled to be paid for the day or part day absence as if that day or part day was not a public holiday,
except where that person would not normally have worked on that day.
175. Where a public holiday falls during a period when an employee is absent on leave (other than annual or personal/carer’s
leave), there is no entitlement to receive payment as a public holiday. Payment for that day would be in accordance with
the entitlement for that form of leave (e.g. if on long service leave on half pay, payment is at half pay).

20

Christmas Closedown
176. All Comcare offices will close for normal business purposes from close of business on the last working day before
Christmas, with business resuming on the first working day after 1 January.
177. Employees will not be required to take leave for this period and will be paid in accordance with their ordinary hours of
work. Where an employee is absent on leave on both sides of the close down, payment for the close down period will be
in accordance with the entitlement for that form of leave (e.g. long service leave half pay, payment will be half pay). On
call and other arrangements to cover urgent business will be maintained over this period.
178. The former public service holiday (which was observed on the next normal working day after the Boxing Day holiday), will
continue to be treated as a public holiday for the purpose of calculating working hours, overtime and restriction allowance.

LONG SERVICE LEAVE
179. An employee will be eligible for long service leave in accordance with the Long Service Leave (Commonwealth Employees)
Act 1976.
180. The minimum period for which long service leave will be granted is 15 calendar days. A period of long service leave
cannot be broken by other periods of leave, a weekend or a public holiday, except as otherwise provided by legislation.

21

SECTION E— PERFORMANCE DEVELOPMENT
PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK
181. The Comcare Performance and Development Framework (PDF) applies to all Comcare employees covered by this
Agreement. They are required to have a current and up-to-date performance plan.
182. All employees receive a performance rating at the end of the performance cycle which will reflect their performance and
contribution to achievement of organisational goals.
183. Further information can be found in Comcare’s Performance and Development Framework.

LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT
184. Comcare is committed to providing training and other learning and development opportunities for staff. Comcare
recognises the importance of building individual and organisational capability to support Comcare to achieve outcomes.
185. Learning and development needs are identified and prioritised through Comcare’s workforce planning process at the
organisational level and include a range of options to support building:
a) core capabilities common to all staff such as writing skills, customer service
b) supporting capabilities that are related to different job functions and roles undertaken by Comcare staff such as policy
development
c) technical skills that may be required for specific job roles such as legislative training
d) continuing professional development.
186. All Comcare employees are required to develop an individual learning and development plan as part of their performance
plan. Further information can be found in the Comcare Performance and Development Framework.

Studies assistance
187. Comcare will provide a centrally funded and administered studies assistance program.
188. The financial delegate may approve reimbursement of study fees up to an amount of $4000 per year, subject to the
successful completion of the approved course of study. Additional financial assistance above this limit may be approved
by the Chief Executive Officer.
189. Further information can be found in Comcare’s Studies Assistance Policy and Procedure.

Professional Memberships
190. Where it is a mandatory requirement of a role for an employee to be a member of a professional organisation, Comcare
will pay the fees associated with maintaining the membership.
191. Where an employee and their manager identify membership to a professional organisation as a development opportunity
through the employee’s performance plan, Comcare may pay the fees associated with that membership.

22

PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT
192. When a manager identifies that an employee’s performance is not meeting required standards, the manager will provide
the employee with clearly defined performance measures including details of the required standards, how the employee is
not yet meeting these standards and how the employee’s performance will be assessed. The manager and the employee
will work cooperatively to assist the employee to attain and sustain the standards required. This may include the provision
of coaching, counselling and learning and development assistance to improve performance.

MANAGING UNDERPERFORMANCE
193. If after a reasonable period of support, the employee’s performance continues to not meet the required standards, a formal
underperformance process will commence and the employee will be notified of this in writing.
194. The employee may be supported by a person of their choice during performance improvement and managing
underperformance processes and at any meetings that are relevant to these processes.
195. Underperformance will be managed in accordance with the following principles:
e) applying natural justice principles and giving employees an opportunity to respond to concerns about their
performance,
f)

applying transparent processes to ensure procedural fairness,

g) maintaining open, honest and two-way communications at all times,
h) taking individual circumstances into account, including relevant health issues.
196. Further information can be found in the Comcare’s Performance and Development Framework.

23

SECTION F—WORKING FLEXIBLY
FLEXIBLE WORKING ARRANGEMENTS
197. If an employee applies to access any of the flexible working arrangement provisions of this Agreement and the request is
denied, the manager must provide the employee with a reason for the decision in writing.

Regular part time work
198. A part time employee is one whose regular hours of work are less than 37.5 hours per week, as agreed between the
employee and his or her manager.
199. Remuneration and other entitlements for part time employees, including leave, will be calculated as a pro-rata amount
unless otherwise required by legislation. For expense related allowances part-time employees will receive the same amount
as full-time employees.
200. Part time employees can agree to work outside of their agreed hours and pattern of work. In such instances part time APS
1 to 6 employees will be entitled to flex time provisions.
201. Further information can be found in Comcare’s Part-Time Work Guidelines.

Working from home
202. An employee and his or her manager may agree to the employee working from home on either a long term or casual
basis. All arrangements are subject to operational requirements being met.
203. Further information can be found in Comcare’s Working from Home Guidelines.

Job sharing
204. A manager may approve job sharing arrangements between two or more employees subject to operational requirements
and the basis of the employees’ applications. The details of any job sharing arrangement will be agreed in writing between
the manager and the employees involved.

Business hours
205. Comcare’s business hours are between 8.30 am and 5.00 pm Monday to Friday. The bandwidth for normal work for
employees using flex time will be from 7.00 am to 7.00 pm Monday to Friday.

Standard hours
206. Standard hours for a full time employee are 8:30 am to 12:30 pm then 1:30 pm to 5:00pm. Part time employees’
standard hours are those defined within the contract of employment or the part time work arrangement where applicable.

Recording attendance
207. An employee who works flex time arrangements must record attendance on a flex diary form or in another way approved
by Comcare.
208. For all other employees the method of recording attendance is as agreed between the employee and his or her supervisor
or, in the absence of agreement, as decided by the supervisor.

24

Flex time
209. Employees at classification levels up to and including APS 6 are eligible to use the flex time system.
210. The Chief Executive Officer may remove any employee from the flex time system and require the employee to work standard
hours where the employee has not complied with his or her obligations under the flex time system.
211. The flex time system includes the following features:
a) the bandwidth for normal work will be from 7.00 am to 7.00 pm Monday to Friday
b) ordinary hours of work for full time employees are 150 hours over a four week period (the ‘settlement period’), i.e. an
average of 37.5 hours per week
c) employees will
i.

make themselves available for reasonable direction to work outside their agreed pattern of work

ii. not be required to work more than five consecutive hours without a break of at least 30 minutes
iii. not be required to work more than ten ordinary hours’ time on any one day.
d) a 37.5 hour maximum flex credit carryover will be permitted to provide employees and managers with more flexibility
in deciding when accrued time is able to be taken
e) the maximum allowable flex debit will be 10 hours. Hours in excess of this debit will be deducted from an employee’s
pay except where the manager, as a result of the employee providing evidence of exceptional circumstances, agrees to
allow the employee a further settlement period to reduce the debit to 10 hours or less.
212. An employee may only carry over flex credit in excess of 37.5 hours where the manager has expressly agreed to the
additional hours worked. Excess flex credit should only occur in exceptional, non-enduring circumstances.
213. Where an employee has excess flex credit the employee and their manager must identify and discuss appropriate action
to reduce the flex credit within the next settlement period. In these circumstances employees are entitled to have no
reasonable request for flex leave refused and managers are entitled to direct that flex leave be taken.
214. If the manager cannot envisage an opportunity for the employee to use the excess credits in the next settlement period, flex
credits exceeding 37.5 hours may be cashed out at ordinary time rates.
215. Further information can be found in Comcare’s Flex Time Guidelines.

Unauthorised absence
216. Where an employee is absent from duty without approval, all pay and other benefits provided under this Agreement will
cease to be available until the employee resumes duty or is granted leave. When the employee returns to duty, they will
revert to standard hours until their manager approves otherwise.

Arrangements for Executive Level employees
217. Full time Executive Level employees are required to work an average of 37.5 hours per week and on occasion are required
to work additional or irregular hours to meet work demands. Executive Level remuneration recognises the additional
demands which may be placed upon them.
218. Where an Executive Level employee has been required to work additional hours, the employee’s manager will provide him
or her with reasonable paid time off in lieu of hours worked. This will not be on an hour-for-hour basis.
219. Where an Executive Level employee has been required to work outside the bandwidth specified in clause 211a), he or
she will be entitled to an eight hour break plus reasonable travelling time before recommencing work without incurring any
loss of pay. Where this break is not possible due to operational requirements the manager will negotiate with the affected
employee about appropriate recompense (which may or may not be monetary and may include compensatory time off for
employees).
25

INDIVIDUAL FLEXIBILITY ARRANGEMENT
220. The Chief Executive Officer and an employee covered by this enterprise agreement may agree to make an individual
flexibility arrangement to vary the effect of any terms of this Agreement, where the arrangement meets the genuine needs of
the employee and Comcare.
221. The Chief Executive Officer must ensure that a flexibility arrangement agreed to under this clause:
a) is about permitted matters under section 172 of the Fair Work Act 2009
b) is not an unlawful term under section 194 of the Fair Work Act 2009
c) results in the employee being better off overall than if no arrangement was agreed to;
d) is in writing and includes details of:
i.

the terms of the enterprise agreement that will be varied by the arrangement, and

ii. how the arrangement will vary the effect of the term, and
iii. how the employee will be better off overall in relation to the terms and conditions of his or her employment as a
result of the arrangement, and
e) states the day on which the arrangement commences
f)

is signed by both the employee and the Chief Executive Officer, and, if the employee is under 18, is signed by their
parent or guardian;

g) is able to be terminated by either the employee or the Chief Executive Officer giving not more than 28 days written
notice, or at any time agreement between the employee and Chief Executive Officer in writing; and
h) is given to the employee within 14 days after it is agreed to.
222. A flexibility arrangement must be genuinely agreed between the employee and the Chief Executive Officer.

26

SECTION G—HEALTH AND WELLBEING
HEALTH AND WELLBEING REIMBURSEMENT
223. To support employees with healthy lifestyle choices, the Chief Executive Officer will reimburse eligible employees up
to $300 per financial year to participate in health and wellbeing activities subject to the provision of evidence of the
expenditure.
224. For the purposes of clause 223, an eligible employee is:
a) an ongoing employee
b) a non-ongoing employee with at least three months continuous service with Comcare.

EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM (EAP)
225. Comcare will provide an employee assistance program (EAP) to assist employees and their immediate families should
they be experiencing difficulty with work or personal issues. The service is at no cost to employees and their families, is
offered through an independent external provider, and is confidential between the employee, family member and the EAP
provider.

VACCINATIONS
226. Comcare will provide employees with opportunity to receive a seasonal influenza vaccination at no cost to the employee.

WORKPLACE RESPONSIBILITY ALLOWANCE
227. An allowance of $27 per fortnight will be paid to employees who are appointed to and have completed the required training
or refresher courses to undertake the following workplace responsibility roles:
a) First Aid Officers
b) Chief Emergency and Floor Wardens
c) Health and Safety Representatives
228. Employees who are authorised by Comcare to undertake more than one of the above workplace responsibility roles will
only receive one payment of the allowance per fortnight.

DEALING WITH LOCAL ACCOMMODATION CHANGES OR
BUILDING WORK
229. When a decision is made to undertake construction, building alteration, refurbishment or relocation for a workplace,
the Chief Executive Officer may form a workplace accommodation committee to provide recommendations in relation
to alteration, refurbishment or relocation. Where an accommodation committee is formed, members may include
an employee nominated representative from the work area and the Health and Safety Representative for the relevant
Designated Work Group.
230. Where disruption due to construction, building alteration, refurbishment or relocation of a workplace is significant and
unavoidable to the extent that it disrupts working arrangements (including the potential to compromise the health and
safety of employees) and where this cannot be minimised, including through temporary relocation, the Chief Executive
Officer may, taking into account the duration and severity of the disruption, authorise miscellaneous leave with pay or
working from home arrangements.

27

SECTION H—SEPARATION
TERMINATION AT EMPLOYEE’S INITIATIVE
231. An employee must give the Chief Executive Officer at least two weeks’ notice in writing of their intention to resign or retire.
232. If an employee fails to give the required notice Comcare may withhold the amount the employee would have been paid in
respect of the period of notice required by clause 231 less any period of notice actually given by the employee.
233. The obligation to provide notice by an employee may be waived by the Chief Executive Officer.
234. Where an employee resigns on a public holiday, they will be deemed to have resigned on the last working day prior to the
public holiday.

PAYMENTS ON DEATH
235. Where an employee dies or is presumed to have died on a particular date, the Chief Executive Officer may authorise
payment, to be made to the dependants or partner or the legal representative of the employee, the amount that would have
been paid if the employee had ceased employment by resignation or retirement.

28

SECTION I—REDEPLOYMENT AND REDUNDANCY
COVERAGE
236. These provisions only apply to ongoing APS employees who are not serving a probationary period.

Excess employees
237. An employee is excess if:
a) the employee is included in a class of employees employed in the agency which class comprises a greater number of
employees than is necessary for the efficient and economical working of Comcare
b) the services of the employee cannot be effectively used because of technological or other changes in the work methods
of Comcare or changes in the nature, extent or organisation of the functions of Comcare
c)

where the duties usually performed by the employee are to be performed at a different locality, the employee is not
willing to perform duties at the locality and Comcare has determined that these provisions will apply to that employee.

Notification of potentially excess status (APSLMAP is replaced by generic
description)
238. When the Chief Executive Officer is aware that an employee is likely to become excess, the Chief Executive Officer will at the
earliest practicable time advise the employee of the situation.
239. Discussions with the potentially excess employee and, where they choose their representatives, will be held to consider:
a) measures which might be taken to resolve the situation, including redeployment opportunities for the employee within
Comcare, at or below the employee’s classification level
b) referral to an appropriate redeployment service provider
c) whether voluntary redundancy might be appropriate.
240. The Chief Executive Officer may, prior to the conclusion of the discussions set out at clause 239, invite employees
who are not potentially excess to express interest in voluntary redundancy, where those redundancies would permit the
redeployment of employees who are potentially excess.

Notification of excess status (APSLMAP is replaced by generic description)
241. The Chief Executive Officer will identify the employees who are excess to Comcare’s requirements after the discussions
referred to in clause 236 have occurred. The period of these discussions will not exceed one month (or lesser period
as agreed with the employee) after the Chief Executive Officer has advised the employee under clause 239. The Chief
Executive Officer may then immediately advise those employees in writing that they are excess.
242. The Chief Executive Officer will then establish with the identified excess employees which employees will be offered
voluntary redundancy immediately and which employees seek redeployment. An employee seeking redeployment will be
immediately referred to an appropriate redeployment service provider for assistance.

29

RETENTION PERIODS
243. Other than when the provisions of clause 252 apply, unless the employee agrees, an excess employee will not have his or
her employment terminated until the employee’s retention period has elapsed:
a) for an employee who was an ongoing employee of Comcare on 9 October 2000, and who has remained an ongoing
employee of Comcare continuously since that date, the retention period is:
i.

13 months where an employee has 20 or more years of service or is over 45 years of age; or

ii. seven months for other employees
b) For an employee who became an ongoing employee of Comcare after 9 October 2000 the retention period is seven
months. An employee, who became an ongoing employee as the result of the filling of a vacancy which had been
advertised in the Gazette before 9 October 2000, will be considered to be an ongoing employee for the purposes of
sub-clause a).
244. The retention period will commence on the earlier of the following:
a) the day the employee is advised in writing by the Chief Executive Officer that he or she is an excess employee
b) one month after the day on which the Chief Executive Officer invites the employee in writing to accept voluntary
redundancy.
245. During the retention period the Chief Executive Officer:
a) will continue to take all reasonable steps, consistent with the efficient management of Comcare, to assign new duties
to an excess employee, at the employee’s classification level within Comcare
b) assist an excess employee to pursue redeployment opportunities in other APS agencies
c) may, with four weeks’ notice, allocate a lower classification to the employee where a suitable vacancy at a lower
classification level is available
d) will continue to consult with an excess employee and, where they choose their representatives throughout the retention
period.
246. At the expiration of the retention period, if an employee is entitled to a redundancy payment in accordance with the National
Employment Standards, the relevant period in clause 243 is reduced by the number of weeks’ redundancy pay.

Income maintenance
247. Where an excess employee is reduced in classification before the end of the retention period, the employee will continue to
be paid at his or her previous classification for the balance of the retention period.
248. Income maintenance payments will include higher duties allowance where the employee has been in receipt of that
allowance for a continuous period of 12 months immediately preceding the date on which the employee:
a) is notified that he or she is excess; or
b) receives a notice reducing the employee’s classification.
provided the employee would have continued to perform the duties at the higher classification but for the excess staff
situation.

30

Redeployment assistance
249. An excess employee is entitled to reasonable leave with full pay to attend necessary employment interviews.
250. An excess employee may request assistance in meeting reasonable travel and incidental expenses incurred in seeking
alternative employment where they are not met by the prospective employer.
251. Where it is necessary as a result of a reassignment of duties for an excess employee to move the employee’s household to
a new locality, the employee will be entitled to payment or reimbursement of reasonable expenses as if the employee was
being promoted.

Early termination during retention period
252. Where the Chief Executive Officer believes there is insufficient productive work available for an excess employee within
Comcare during the retention period, the Chief Executive Officer may, under section 29 of the Public Service Act 1999:
(i) with the agreement of the employee, terminate the employment of the employee at any time
(ii) subject to clause 253, terminate the employment of the employee without the agreement of the employee.
253. The date of effect of a termination of employment under sub-clause 252(ii) cannot be earlier than the day following the day
on which the employee has completed a minimum of seven months of his or her retention period.
254. Upon termination under clause 252, the employee will be paid a lump sum comprising:
a) the balance of the retention period (as shortened for the National Employment Standards) under sub-clause 254(b))
and this payment will be taken to include the payment in lieu of notice of termination of employment; and
b) an additional redundancy payment equal to the amount the retention period was shortened by under 254(a) above
(i.e. the National Employment Standards component).

VOLUNTARY REDUNDANCY
255. Where the Chief Executive Officer invites an employee in writing to accept voluntary redundancy, the employee will have
one month in which to accept the offer. Where the offer is accepted the Chief Executive Officer will not give notice of
termination of employment before the end of that period without the agreement of the employee.
256. To allow the employee to make an informed decision on whether to accept the offer of voluntary redundancy the employee
must be given information on the amount of his or her severance pay, pay in lieu of notice and leave credits; the amount
of his or her accumulated superannuation contributions; options open to him or her concerning superannuation; and the
taxation rules applying to the various payments (this does not include financial advice).
257. An employee who is invited in writing to accept voluntary redundancy will be entitled to a maximum reimbursement of
$770 to seek financial and lifestyle advice.
258. The Chief Executive Officer may make an offer of voluntary redundancy to an excess employee within two months of
declaring them excess, and, if not already made, will make an offer at the end of that period to an employee who has not
been redeployed.
259. Only one offer of voluntary redundancy will be made to an excess employee.
260. An excess employee who declines an offer of voluntary redundancy will immediately be referred to an appropriate
redeployment service provider. An excess employee who does not accept an offer of voluntary redundancy within the one
month period will be taken as having declined the offer and will immediately be referred to an appropriate redeployment
service provider.

31

Period of notice
261. Where an employee accepts an offer of voluntary redundancy, the Chief Executive Officer may terminate the employment
of the employee by giving the employee written notice of termination of employment under section 29 of the Public Service
Act 1999. The period of notice will be four weeks (or five weeks for an employee over 45 years of age and with at least two
years of continuous service).
262. Where the Chief Executive Officer directs, or the employee requests, the employee may have his or her employment
terminated during the notice period. Where the employment is terminated at the beginning of, or within, the notice period,
the employee will receive payment in lieu of notice for the unexpired portion of the notice period.

Redundancy payments
263. An employee who has his or her employment terminated by the Chief Executive Officer under section 29 of the Public
Service Act 1999 as a result of accepting an offer of voluntary redundancy made in accordance with clause 255 is entitled
to be paid a sum equal to two weeks’ salary for each completed year of continuous service, plus a pro rata payment for
completed months of service since the last completed year of service.
264. The minimum sum payable will be four weeks’ salary and the maximum will be 48 weeks’ salary and is also subject to
any minimum amount the employee is entitled to under the National Employment Standards.
265. The redundancy payment will be calculated on a pro rata basis for any period where an employee has worked part time
hours during his or her period of service and the employee has less than 24 years full time service.
266. Subject to clauses 267 to 269, service for severance pay purposes means:
a) service in Comcare
b) Government service as defined in section 10 of the Long Service Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1976
c) service with the Commonwealth (other than service with a joint Commonwealth-State body corporate in which the
Commonwealth does not have a controlling interest) which is recognised for long service leave purposes
d) service with the Australian Defence Forces
e) APS service immediately preceding deemed resignation under the repealed section 49 of the Public Service Act 1922, if
the service has not previously been recognised for severance pay purposes
f)

service in another organisation where an employee was transferred from the APS to that organisation with a transfer of
function or an employee engaged by that organisation on work within a function is engaged as a result of the transfer
of that function to the APS and such service is recognised for long service leave purposes.

267. For earlier periods of service to count as service for severance pay purposes there must be no breaks between the periods
of service, except where:
a) the break in service is less than one month and occurs where an offer of employment with the new employer was
made and accepted by the employee before ceasing employment with the preceding employer; or
b) the earlier period of service was with the APS and ceased because the employee was deemed to have resigned from
the APS on marriage under the repealed section 49 of the Public Service Act 1922.

32

268. Periods of service that will not count as service for redundancy pay purposes are periods of service that ceased by way of:
a) termination under section 29 of the Public Service Act 1999
b) prior to the commencement of the Public Service Act 1999, by way of redundancy; forfeiture of office, retirement on the
grounds of invalidity, inefficiency or loss of qualifications; dismissal or termination of probationary appointment for
reasons of unsatisfactory service or
c) voluntary retirement at or above the minimum retiring age applicable to the employee or
d) payment of a redundancy benefit or a similar payment or an employer-financed retirement benefit.
269. Absences from work which do not count as service for long service leave purposes will not count as service for severance
pay purposes.

Rate of payment—redundancy
270. For the purpose of calculating any payment under clause 263 salary will include:
a) the employee’s salary; and
b) Higher duties allowance, where the employee has been receiving higher duties allowance for a continuous period of at
least 12 months immediately preceding the date on which the employee is given notice of termination of employment;
and
c) other allowances in the nature of salary which are paid during periods of annual leave and on a regular basis,
excluding allowances which are a reimbursement for expenses incurred, or a payment for disabilities associated with
the performance of duty.

Involuntary termination of employment following a retention period
271. The Chief Executive Officer may, under section 29 of the Public Service Act 1999, terminate the employment of an excess
employee at the end of the employee’s retention period.
272. The Chief Executive Officer will not terminate the employment if the employee has not been invited to accept a voluntarily
redundancy as per clause 255 or has elected to accept voluntarily redundancy but the Chief Executive Officer refused to
approve it.
273. An excess employee will be given four weeks’ notice (or five weeks’ notice for an employee over 45 with at least two years
of continuous service) where it is proposed to terminate the employment of an excess employee. Where possible, this
notice period will be concurrent with the retention period.

33

ATTACHMENT A—APS SALARY RATES
3.0% pay rise from
commencement
of the Agreement

2.0% pay rise 12 months
after commencement
of Agreement

1.0% pay rise 24 months
after commencement
of Agreement

APS1.1

$ 44,936

$ 45,835

$ 46,293

APS1.2

$ 46,139

$ 47,062

$ 47,532

APS1.3

$ 48,018

$ 48,978

$ 49,468

APS1.4

$ 49,152

$ 50,135

$ 50,636

APS2.1

$ 50,494

$ 51,504

$ 52,019

APS2.2

$ 51,808

$ 52,844

$ 53,373

APS2.3

$ 53,137

$ 54,199

$ 54,741

APS2.4

$ 54,452

$ 55,541

$ 56,096

APS2.5

$ 55,914

$ 57,032

$ 57,602

APS3.1

$ 57,631

$ 58,783

$ 59,371

APS3.2

$ 59,080

$ 60,261

$ 60,864

APS3.3

$ 60,600

$ 61,812

$ 62,430

APS3.4

$ 62,559

$ 63,810

$ 64,448

APS4.1

$ 64,224

$ 65,508

$ 66,163

APS4.2

$ 65,879

$ 67,196

$ 67,868

APS4.3

$ 67,555

$ 68,906

$ 69,595

APS4.4

$ 70,239

$ 71,644

$ 72,360

APS5.1

$ 72,422

$ 73,871

$ 74,610

APS5.2

$ 74,449

$ 75,938

$ 76,698

APS5.3

$ 75,821

$ 77,338

$ 78,111

APS5.4

$ 77,694

$ 79,248

$ 80,040

APS6.1

$ 80,717

$ 82,331

$ 83,155

APS6.2

$ 83,797

$ 85,473

$ 86,327

APS6.3

$ 87,019

$ 88,759

$ 89,646

APS6.4

$ 89,568

$ 91,359

$ 92,273

EL1.1

$ 99,831

$ 101,827

$ 102,846

EL1.2

$103,981

$ 106,060

$ 107,121

EL1.3

$108,972

$ 111,151

$ 112,263

EL1.4

$113,962

$ 116,242

$ 117,404

EL1.5

$118,953

$ 121,332

$ 122,545

EL2.1

$124,897

$ 127,395

$ 128,669

EL2.2

$130,506

$ 133,116

$ 134,447

EL2.3

$136,116

$ 138,838

$ 140,226

EL2.4

$141,725

$ 144,559

$ 146,005

Classification
APS 1

APS 2

APS 3

APS 4

APS 5

APS 6

EL1

EL 2

Note: Annual leave loading has been subsumed into salary

34

LEGAL ADVISERS
3.0% pay rise from
commencement
of the Agreement

2.0% pay rise 12 months
after commencement
of Agreement

1.0% pay rise 24 months
after commencement
of Agreement

LA 4.1

$65,879

$67,196

$67,868

Adviser

LA 4.2

$67,555

$68,906

$69,595

APS 4

LA 4.3

$70,239

$71,644

$72,360

Legal

LA 5.1

$74,449

$75,938

$76,698

Adviser

LA 5.2

$75,821

$77,338

$78,111

APS 5

LA 5.3

$77,694

$79,248

$80,040

Legal

LA 6.1

$80,717

$82,331

$83,155

Adviser

LA 6.2

$83,797

$85,473

$86,327

APS 6

LA 6.3

$89,251

$91,036

$91,946

LA 6.4

$95,214

$97,119

$98,090

Senior

SLA.1

$102,826

$104,882

$105,931

Legal

SLA.2

$108,069

$110,230

$111,332

Adviser

SLA.3

$113,312

$115,579

$116,734

(EL 1)

SLA.4

$118,555

$120,926

$122,135

SLA.5

$123,799

$126,275

$127,538

Principal

PLA.1

$129,230

$131,815

$133,133

Legal

PLA.2

$134,203

$136,887

$138,256

Adviser

PLA.3

$139,177

$141,960

$143,380

(EL 2)

PLA.4

$144,149

$147,031

$148,502

Local Title

Classification

Legal

Note: Annual leave loading has been subsumed into salary

35

GRADUATE
Local Title

Graduate

3.0% pay rise from
commencement
of the Agreement

2.0% pay rise 12 months
after commencement
of Agreement

1.0% pay rise 24 months
after commencement
of Agreement

APS 2.1

$ 50,494

$ 51,504

$ 52,019

APS 2.2

$ 51,808

$ 52,844

$ 53,373

APS 2.3

$ 53,137

$ 54,199

$ 54,741

APS 2.4

$ 54,452

$ 55,541

$ 56,096

APS 2.5

$ 55,914

$ 57,032

$ 57,602

APS 3.1

$ 57,631

$ 58,783

$ 59,371

APS 3.2

$ 59,080

$ 60,261

$ 60,864

APS 3.3

$ 60,600

$ 61,812

$ 62,430

APS 3.4

$ 62,559

$ 63,810

$ 64,448

APS 4.1

$ 64,224

$ 65,508

$ 66,163

APS 4.2

$ 65,879

$ 67,196

$ 67,868

APS 4.3

$ 67,555

$ 68,906

$ 69,595

APS 4.4

$ 70,239

$ 71,644

$ 72,360

APS
Classification

Note: Annual leave loading has been subsumed into salary

TRAINEE APS (ADMINISTRATIVE) SALARY RATES
3.0% pay rise from
commencement
of the Agreement

2.0% pay rise 12 months
after commencement
of Agreement

1.0% pay rise 24 months
after commencement
of Agreement

School leaver

$25,164

$ 25,667

$25,924

Plus 1 year out of school*

$29,208

$ 29,792

$30,091

Plus 2 years

$32,803

$ 33,459

$33,794

Plus 3 years or more

$35,949

$ 36,668

$37,034

Highest year of schooling
completed

* For the purposes of this table, ’out of school’ will refer only to periods out of school beyond Year 10, and will be deemed to:
> include any period of schooling beyond Year 10 which was not part of nor contributed to a complete year of schooling
> include any period during which a Trainee repeats in whole or part of a year beyond Year 10
> not include any period during a calendar year in which schooling is completed, and
> have effect on an anniversary date being 1 January each year.
Note: Annual leave loading has been subsumed into salary

36

CADET APS SALARY RATES
Classification

Cadet APS
(Practical Training)

3.0% pay rise from
commencement
of the Agreement

2.0% pay rise 12 months
after commencement
of Agreement

1.0% pay rise 24 months
after commencement
of Agreement

$43,493

$44,363

$44,807

$44,936

$45,835

$46,293

$46,139

$47,062

$47,533

$48,018

$48,978

$49,468

For more information on Cadet APS employees salary and allowances staff should consult Comcare’s Remuneration Guidelines
Note: Annual leave loading has been subsumed into salary

37

ATTACHMENT B— SUPPORTED WAGE SYSTEM
274. This schedule defines the conditions which will apply to employees who because of the effects of a disability are eligible for
a supported wage under the terms of this award.
275. In this schedule:
>

approved assessor means a person accredited by the management unit established by the Commonwealth under
the supported wage system to perform assessments of an individual’s productive capacity within the supported wage
system

>

assessment instrument means the tool provided for under the supported wage system that records the assessment of
the productive capacity of the person to be employed under the supported wage system

>

disability Support Pension means the Commonwealth Government pension scheme to provide income security for
persons with a disability as provided under the Social Security Act 1991 (Cth), as amended from time to time, or any
successor to that scheme

>

relevant minimum wage means the minimum wage prescribed in this award for the class of work for which an
employee is engaged

>

Supported Wage System (SWS) means the Commonwealth Government system to promote employment for people
who cannot work at full award wages because of a disability, as documented in the Supported Wage System
Handbook.

>

SWS wage assessment agreement means the document in the form required.

Eligibility criteria
276. Employees covered by this schedule will be those who are unable to perform the range of duties to the competence level
required within the class for which the employee is engaged under this award, because of the effects of a disability on their
productive capacity and who meet the impairment criteria for receipt of a disability support pension.
277. The schedule does not apply to any existing employee who has a claim against the employer which is subject to the
provisions of workers compensation legislation or any provision of this award relating to the rehabilitation of employees
who are injured in the course of their employment.

Supported wage rates
278. Employees to whom this clause applies shall be paid the applicable percentage of the relevant minimum wage according
to the following schedule:
Assessed capacity

Per cent of prescribed salary rate

10%

10%

20%

20%

30%

30%

40%

40%

50%

50%

60%

60%

70%

70%

80%

80%

90%

90%

279. Provided that the minimum amount payable must be not less than $81 per week.
280. Where an employee’s assessed capacity is 10 per cent; they must receive a high degree of assistance and support.
38

Assessment of capacity
281. For the purposes of establishing the percentage of the relevant minimum wage, the productive capacity of the employee will
be assessed in accordance with the SWS by an approved assessor, having consulted the employer and the employee, and
if the employee so desires, their representative.
282. Assessment made under this schedule must be documented in a SWS wage assessment agreement, and retained by the
employer as a time and wages record in accordance with the Social Security Act 1991.

Lodgement of SWS wage assessment agreement
283. All SWS wage assessment agreements under the conditions of this schedule, including the appropriate percentage of the
relevant minimum wage to be paid to the employee, must be lodged by the employer with the Fair Work Commission.
284. All SWS wage assessment agreements must be agreed and signed by the employee and employer parties to the
assessment. Where a union which has an interest in the award is not a party to the assessment, the assessment will be
referred by the Fair Work Commission to the union by certified mail and the agreement will take effect unless an objection
is notified to the Fair Work Commission within 10 working days.

Review of assessment
285. The assessment of the applicable percentage should be subject to annual review or more frequent review on the basis of
a reasonable request for such a review. The process of review must be in accordance with the procedures for assessing
capacity under the support wage system.

Other terms and conditions of employment
286. Where an assessment has been made, the applicable percentage will apply to the relevant wage rate only. Employees
covered by the provisions of the schedule will be entitled to the same terms and conditions of employment as all other
workers covered by this award paid on a pro rata basis.

Workplace adjustment
287. An employer wishing to employ a person under the provisions of this schedule must take reasonable steps to make
changes in the workplace to enhance the employee’s capacity to do the job. Changes may involve redesign of job duties,
working time arrangements and work organisation in consultation with other workers in the area.

Trial period
288. In order for an adequate assessment of the employee’s capacity to be made, an employer may employ a person under
the provisions of this schedule for a trial period not exceeding 12 weeks, except that in some cases additional work
adjustment time (not exceeding four weeks) may be needed.
289. During that trial period the assessment of capacity will be undertaken and the percentage of the relevant minimum wage for
a continuing employment relationship will be determined.
290. The minimum amount payable to the employee during the trial period must be no less than $ 81 per week.
291. Work trials should include induction or training as appropriate to the job being trialed.
292. Where the employer and employee wish to establish a continuing employment relationship following the completion
of the trial period, a further contract of employment will be entered into based on the outcome of assessment under
clause 281 - 282.

39

DEFINITIONS
APS

Australian Public Service

Casual Employee

Non-ongoing employees engaged for duties under the Public Service Act 1999 s22 (2)(c) that are
irregular or intermittent

Chief Executive Officer

the Chief Executive Officer of Comcare

Classification

an approved classification under the Public Service Classification Rules 2000

Dependant

in relation to an employee means: the spouse of the employee; and/or a child or parent of the
employee, or of the spouse of the employee, being a child or parent who ordinarily resides with
the employee and who is wholly or substantially dependent upon the employee

Different locality

in relation to the redeployment and redundancy provisions of this Agreement, a reference to duties
being performed in a different locality means that the duties performed by the employee have been
moved from one capital city to another, or on a similar scale, such as from a country town to a
capital city, and it would be necessary and reasonable for the employee to move house in order to
maintain employment

Employee

a person employed by Comcare under the provisions of the Public Service Act 1999 and covered
by this Agreement

Evidence of illness

a certificate provided by a registered health practitioner or if it is not reasonably practicable for
the employee to give the employer a medical certificate, a statutory declaration made by the
employee; or other evidence approved by the Chief Executive Officer.

Executive Level
employee

Employees at the Executive Level 1, Senior Legal Adviser, Executive Level 2 and Principal Legal
Adviser classifications

FWC

Fair Work Commission

Fair Work Act

Fair Work Act 2009

Family

a person who the Chief Executive Officer is satisfied is related by blood or by marriage, has a
strong affinity with the employee including a traditional kinship relationship, is a de facto spouse,
former spouse or former de facto spouse of the employee without discrimination as to sexual
preference, is a member of the employee’s household, is a member of the employee’s immediate
family, is a child or an adopted child of the employee, is a foster child of the employee, or
is a child or an adopted child of the person who stands in a genuine domestic or household
relationship with the employee

Higher duties

temporary assignment of duties at a higher classification under section 25 of the Public Service
Act 1999

Household member

a person who normally lives at the employee’s residence, other than in a commercial
arrangement

Illness

includes an injury or medical condition

Immediate family

Comprises of spouse, de facto spouse or partner of the employee; and a child or an adult child
(including an adopted child, a step or ex nuptial child), parent, grandparent, grandchild or sibling
of the employee or spouse or partner of the employee

40

Invalidity

for the purposes of this Agreement, termination of employment on the grounds of invalidity
means the termination, under 29(3)(d) of the Public Service Act 1999, of an employee who
is a member of either the PSS or CSS superannuation schemes following the obtaining of the
certification required by section 13 of the Superannuation Act 1990, or section 54C of the
Superannuation Act 1976

Manager

an employee’s direct supervisor, and any other person employed or engaged under an Act who
has direct line responsibility for the employee

Move

a reassignment of an employee’s duties, whether on a temporary or permanent basis, either
within Comcare or to or from another APS agency

Partner

in relation to a person who is a member of a couple, the other member of the couple

Performance and
Development
Framework

Comcare’s performance management system

Primary caregiver

a person who assumes the principal role of providing care and attention to a child/children

Public Service Act

Public Service Act 1999

Salary

the employee’s rate of pay (in accordance with the pay rates at Attachment A) will be salary for all
purposes, including superannuation (subject to relevant superannuation scheme rules), overtime,
severance and termination payments

Service anniversary
date

the date which is 12 months from the employee’s commencement date, deferred by any periods
of leave without pay not counting for service

41

SIGNATURE PAGE
For the Employer
On behalf of the Minister for Employment and Workplace Relations

Signed: Jennifer Taylor

Date: 23.3.16

Jennifer Taylor
Chief Executive Officer
Comcare
GPO Box 9905,
Canberra ACT 2601

For the Community and Public Sector Union

Signed: Beth Vincent Pietsch

Date: 23.3.16

Beth Vincent Pietsch
Deputy Secretary
Community and Public Sector Union
1/40 Brisbane Avenue
Barton ACT 2600

42

COMCARE.GOV.AU

